1. Anesth Analg. 2020 Aug;131(2):411-448. doi: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000004833.

Fourth Consensus Guidelines for the Management of Postoperative Nausea and 
Vomiting.

Gan TJ(1), Belani KG(2), Bergese S(3), Chung F(4), Diemunsch P(5)(6), Habib 
AS(7), Jin Z(1), Kovac AL(8), Meyer TA(9)(10), Urman RD(11), Apfel CC(12), Ayad 
S(13)(14), Beagley L(15), Candiotti K(16), Englesakis M(17), Hedrick TL(18), 
Kranke P(19), Lee S(20), Lipman D(21), Minkowitz HS(22), Morton J(23), Philip 
BK(11).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Anesthesiology, Stony Brook Renaissance School of 
Medicine, Stony Brook, New York.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, M Health Fairview, Masonic Children's Hospital, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology and Neurological Surgery, Stony Brook 
Renaissance School of Medicine, Stony Brook, New York.
(4)Department of Anesthesia and Pain Management, Toronto Western Hospital, 
University Health Network, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Anaesthesia and Surgical Resuscitation, University of 
Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France.
(6)Department of the Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, University Hospitals of 
Hautepierre and CMCO, Strasbourg, France.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
North Carolina.
(8)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas 
City, Kansas.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, Baylor Scott & White Health-Temple Medical Center, 
Temple, Texas.
(10)Department of Anesthesiology, Texas A&M College of Medicine, Bryan, Texas.
(11)Department of Anesthesiology, and Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Harvard 
Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(12)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco Medical Center, San Francisco, California.
(13)Department of Anesthesiology, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine, 
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.
(14)Outcomes Research Department, Anesthesiology Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio.
(15)Department of Nursing Education, Swedish Hospital Part of NorthShore, 
Chicago, Illinois.
(16)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative Medicine and Pain Management, 
Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, Florida.
(17)Library & Information Services, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(18)Department of Surgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Virginia.
(19)Department of Anaesthesia, University Hospital of Wuerzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.
(20)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Colorado Hospital, Aurora, 
Colorado.
(21)Department of Anesthesiology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(22)Department of Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(23)Department of Surgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.

Erratum in
    Anesth Analg. 2020 Nov;131(5):e241. doi: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000005245.

Comment in
    Anesth Analg. 2021 Feb 1;132(2):e29-e31. doi: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000005279.
    Anesth Analg. 2021 Feb 1;132(2):e31-e33. doi: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000005280.

This consensus statement presents a comprehensive and evidence-based set of 
guidelines for the care of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) in both 
adult and pediatric populations. The guidelines are established by an 
international panel of experts under the auspices of the American Society of 
Enhanced Recovery and Society for Ambulatory Anesthesia based on a comprehensive 
search and review of literature up to September 2019. The guidelines provide 
recommendation on identifying high-risk patients, managing baseline PONV risks, 
choices for prophylaxis, and rescue treatment of PONV as well as recommendations 
for the institutional implementation of a PONV protocol. In addition, the 
current guidelines focus on the evidence for newer drugs (eg, second-generation 
5-hydroxytryptamine 3 [5-HT3] receptor antagonists, neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor 
antagonists, and dopamine antagonists), discussion regarding the use of general 
multimodal PONV prophylaxis, and PONV management as part of enhanced recovery 
pathways. This set of guidelines have been endorsed by 23 professional societies 
and organizations from different disciplines (Appendix 1).Guidelines currently 
available include the 3 iterations of the consensus guideline we previously 
published, which was last updated 6 years ago; a guideline published by American 
Society of Health System Pharmacists in 1999; a brief discussion on PONV 
management as part of a comprehensive postoperative care guidelines; focused 
guidelines published by the Society of Obstetricians and Gynecologists of 
Canada, the Association of Paediatric Anaesthetists of Great Britain & Ireland 
and the Association of Perianesthesia Nursing; and several guidelines published 
in other languages.The current guideline was developed to provide perioperative 
practitioners with a comprehensive and up-to-date, evidence-based guidance on 
the risk stratification, prevention, and treatment of PONV in both adults and 
children. The guideline also provides guidance on the management of PONV within 
enhanced recovery pathways.The previous consensus guideline was published 6 
years ago with a literature search updated to October 2011. Several guidelines, 
which have been published since, are either limited to a specific populations or 
do not address all aspects of PONV management. The current guideline was 
developed based on a systematic review of the literature published up through 
September 2019. This includes recent studies of newer pharmacological agents 
such as the second-generation 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5-HT3) receptor 
antagonists, a dopamine antagonist, neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonists as 
well as several novel combination therapies. In addition, it also contains an 
evidence-based discussion on the management of PONV in enhanced recovery 
pathways. We have also discussed the implementation of a general multimodal PONV 
prophylaxis in all at-risk surgical patients based on the consensus of the 
expert panel.

DOI: 10.1213/ANE.0000000000004833
PMID: 32467512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Prescription of Controlled Substances: Benefits and Risks.

Preuss CV(1), Kalava A(1), King KC(2).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 
Jan–.
2025 Jul 6.

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida
(2)Muhlenberg Community Hospital Greenville

One of the most difficult challenges for any prescriber is distinguishing 
between the legitimate prescription of controlled substances and the 
prescription that may be used for illegitimate purposes. To discern the 
difference, prescribers need to understand the signs, symptoms, and treatment of 
acute and chronic pain and the signs and symptoms of patients misusing 
controlled substances. Pain relief remains one of the most common reasons 
patients seek medical attention. Although many categories of pain medications 
are available, opioid analgesics are approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) for moderate-to-severe pain. As such, they are a common 
choice for patients with acute, cancer-related, neurologic, and end-of-life 
pain. Prescribing opioid analgesics for chronic pain is controversial and 
fraught with inconclusive standards. In the 1990s, the chronic failure of health 
professionals to treat severe pain appropriately led to an expansion in opioid 
analgesic prescribing. Unfortunately, this resulted in increased overuse, 
diversion of drugs, opioid use disorder, and overdose. The Catch-22 is that 
health professionals either undertreat patients, leading to unnecessary 
suffering, or overtreat them, which can cause adverse effects such as increased 
risk of opioid analgesic use disorder and potential overdose. Opioid analgesic 
prescribing reached its highest point in 2011. Since then, both prescribing and 
overdose have been declining. However, as a society, in both the lay and 
scientific literature, there are significant concerns that we are still in the 
middle of an opioid crisis. One of the biggest challenges in caring for patients 
with pain is their varying tolerance levels, which necessitate different opioid 
doses to achieve adequate pain relief. Patients may exhibit a wide range of 
behavioral, cultural, emotional, and psychological responses to pain compared to 
those with a substance use disorder; often, distinguishing between the two can 
be challenging. All healthcare professionals engaged in pain control need an 
understanding of the treatment recommendations and safety concerns in 
prescribing opioid analgesics. Appropriate opioid prescribing requires a 
thorough patient assessment, short- and long-term treatment planning, close 
follow-up, and continued monitoring. All healthcare providers need to be aware 
of appropriate patient assessment, treatment planning, and the potential for 
substance use disorder, drug diversion, and hazardous behavioral responses to 
controlled substances, such as opioid analgesics, which differ from 
pseudoaddiction and physical dependence. Many clinicians have limited knowledge 
of opioid use disorder. They often fail to recognize it as a disease and 
mistakenly believe that opioid dependence is the same as opioid use disorder. A 
lack of clear understanding can lead to confusion between patients with chronic 
non-use disorder and those misusing their prescribed opioids. A lack of training 
and educational deficits often interfere with the appropriate prescription of 
opioid analgesic agents. To prevent the misuse of controlled substances, 
healthcare providers who prescribe controlled substances should learn 
prescribing practices that minimize or prevent adverse consequences. 
Definitions: Addiction: According to the American Society of Addiction Medicine 
(ASAM), addiction is a primary, chronic disease of brain reward, motivation, 
memory, and related circuitry. Dysfunction in these circuits leads to 
characteristic biological, psychological, social, and spiritual manifestations. 
This dysfunction is reflected in an individual pathologically pursuing reward or 
relief through substance use and other behaviors. Addiction is now 
termed substance use disorder and is characterized by an inability to 
consistently abstain, cravings for the drug, impairment in behavioral control, 
diminished ability to recognize significant problems with one's behaviors and 
interpersonal relationships, and a dysfunctional emotional response. Like other 
chronic diseases, substance use disorder often involves cycles of relapse and 
remission. Without treatment or engagement in recovery activities, substance use 
disorder is progressive and can result in disability or premature death. : 
Appropriate opioid analgesic prescribing: This involves providing pain control 
while minimizing toxicity, substance use disorder, or the risk of substance use 
disorder and implementing safeguards to reduce drug diversion. Inappropriate 
opioid analgesic prescribing: Non-prescribing, inadequate prescribing, excessive 
prescribing, or continued prescribing despite evidence of the lack of 
effective opioid analgesic treatment. Controlled substances: These substances 
are drugs or medications that possess the potential for being misused and 
are considered to be substances that have a substantially high risk of resulting 
in substance use disorder. Opioid analgesics: These drugs dull the senses and 
relieve pain, such as morphine. In addition, these medications may induce sleep. 
The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA, USA) uses the term narcotic to refer 
to drugs that are opioid analgesics. Characteristics of Addiction or 
Substance Use Disorder: Craving for drugs or rewards. Diminished recognition of 
significant problems in behavior. Dysfunctional emotional response. Impairment 
in behavioral control. Inability to consistently abstain . Drug Schedules of 
Controlled Substances All healthcare providers should be familiar with the 
guidelines and laws for each schedule, which are based on the purpose of the 
drug and the risk of substance use disorder. In the United States, controlled 
substances are subject to strict regulation by both federal and state laws that 
govern their manufacture and distribution. Controlled substances have a high 
risk of resulting in addiction and substance use disorder. As the schedules 
decrease from I to V, the drugs listed within each category have a lower 
potential to cause a substance use or addiction disorder. Controlled Substances 
Act In the United States, the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control 
Act was passed in 1970 and included the Controlled Substances Act. The 
Controlled Substances Act covers various aspects of drugs as follows: 
Classification and regulation of drugs, according to their content and purpose. 
Manufacturing of drugs. Distribution of drugs. Exportation and sale of drugs. 
The Controlled Substances Act established 5 drug schedules to regulate the 
manufacture and distribution of controlled substances. As part of the 
regulation, healthcare providers who prescribe controlled substances and 
pharmacists who fill these prescriptions must obtain a license from the 
DEA. These licenses include specific license numbers allowing controlled 
substance prescriptions to be tracked and linked to a specific healthcare 
provider or distributor. These schedules categorize substances based on their 
medical value, risk of addiction, and potential to cause harm. The schedules 
range from Schedule I, which has the highest potential for addiction and 
substance use disorder, to Schedule V, which has the lowest potential for 
addiction and substance use disorder. Schedule I: Schedule I drugs possess the 
highest potential for substance use disorder and misuse. These drugs have no 
medical use and are illicit or street drugs. Examples of Schedule I drugs 
include heroin, lysergic acid diethylamide, mescaline, 
methylenedioxymethamphetamine, and methaqualone. Marijuana, which is legal in 
some states, is still classified as a Schedule I drug at the federal level as of 
this writing. Schedule II: Schedule II drugs have a reduced potential for 
substance use disorder compared to Schedule I. These drugs are at high risk for 
both physical and psychological dependence. These drugs have a high capacity for 
both substance use disorder and misuse. Schedule II drugs are typically 
prescribed to treat severe pain, anxiety, insomnia, and attention-deficit 
hyperactivity disorder. Examples of Schedule II substances include fentanyl, 
hydromorphone, meperidine, methadone, morphine, oxycodone, dextroamphetamine, 
methylphenidate, methamphetamine, pentobarbital, and secobarbital. These drugs 
were previously prescribed only through a paper prescription, but they are now 
permitted to be transmitted electronically through Electronic Prescriptions for 
Controlled Substances (EPCS). No refills are allowed. . Schedule II drugs have 
the tightest regulations compared to other prescription drugs. Schedule III: 
Schedule III drugs have a lower misuse potential compared to Schedule I and II 
drugs. These drugs may cause physical dependence but more commonly lead to 
psychological dependence. Medications in this category are often used for pain 
control, anesthesia, or appetite suppression. Examples of Schedule III 
substances include benzphetamine, ketamine, phendimetrazine, and anabolic 
steroids. Opioid analgesics in this schedule include products containing not 
more than 90 mg of codeine per dosage unit and buprenorphine. Schedule III 
drugs may be prescribed verbally over the phone, with a paper prescription, or 
through EPCS. Within a 6-month timeframe, refill requirements are such that the 
drug can only have 5 refills. . Schedule IV: Schedule IV drugs have a lower 
potential for misuse compared to Schedule I, II, or III drugs. These drugs have 
a limited risk of physical or psychological dependence. Examples of Schedule IV 
substances include alprazolam, carisoprodol, clonazepam, clorazepate, diazepam, 
lorazepam, midazolam, temazepam, tramadol, and triazolam. Drugs in this class 
may be used for pain control as long as the healthcare provider deems the drug 
medically necessary and the patient is likely to benefit. Schedule IV drugs can 
be prescribed verbally over the phone, with a paper prescription, or through 
EPCS. Refills are permitted up to 5 times in a 6-month timeframe from the 
issuance date. Schedule V: Schedule V drugs are the least likely of the 
controlled substances to be misused. These drugs result in minimal physical or 
psychological dependence. Examples include cough medicines containing codeine, 
antidiarrheal medications containing atropine or diphenoxylate, pregabalin, and 
ezogabine. Despite their low abuse potential, they still need to be managed 
appropriately and administered with care. When these medicines contain codeine, 
they must have less than 200 mg of codeine per 100 mL. Partial prescription 
fills cannot occur more than 6 months after the issue date. When a partial fill 
occurs, it is treated in the same manner and with the same rules as a refill of 
the drug. Drug Use Disorder, Abuse, and Misuse Drug use disorder differs from 
drug abuse and misuse. Drugs taken may be illicit street drugs, stolen drugs, or 
those obtained through a legal prescription. Misusing a drug typically involves 
taking the drug in a harmful or detrimental way, resulting in personal, 
professional, or social problems. A patient abusing an opioid analgesic may no 
longer be able to interact appropriately with their family or friends and 
perform their duties at work. Misuse of a controlled substance refers to using a 
prescribed drug in a way that was not intended, whether intentionally or 
accidentally. A negative result may or may not occur. Examples of misuse include 
taking too much of a drug, using an incorrect dose, an incorrect route, or using 
prescription drugs written for another person. Controlled substances include 
both prescription drugs and illicit drugs with no recognized medical value. Both 
categories have the potential to be abused or misused. Although the use of 
Schedule I drugs is illegal, prescription drugs found in Schedules II through V 
are also commonly abused and misused, and their misuse is a challenging problem 
that has increased over the last several years. The Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC) has declared prescription drug abuse a problem of 
epidemic proportions. The CDC believes that the absence of checks and balances 
on the prescription and distribution of controlled substances, including those 
prescribed for medical use, has the potential for abuse, and misuse is likely to 
continue increasing. Prescriber Shopping A common practice among individuals who 
intentionally misuse controlled substances is to seek multiple sources for 
drugs. These individuals visit different healthcare providers, presenting a list 
of complaints that are often fictitious and vary from one healthcare provider to 
another. As a result, they may be able to obtain multiple prescriptions, which 
they then fill at different pharmacies. To combat this practice, known as 
prescriber shopping, many states have implemented systems that enable healthcare 
providers to view all the prescriptions written for each patient. The use of 
these systems is helping to gradually reduce such misuse. Diversion Some 
prescription drugs can be sold on the street for as much as $50 per 
tablet. Diversion is when a patient sells their drugs as a method of earning 
money. Patients may also sell their drugs to buy food, pay expenses, or purchase 
more potent street drugs. In some worst cases, healthcare providers may divert 
drugs from patients for their personal use or sell them to others. Some 
individuals use controlled substances for purposes other than their intended 
medical use. Rather than pain control, they may be used to stay awake, induce 
sleep, or get high. Before the popularity of prescription drug diversion, the 
only method to obtain illicit drugs was to import from other countries or 
manufacture them in private labs. Today, law enforcement agencies have the 
tremendous challenge of dealing with prescription drugs sold by diversion and 
illicit drugs imported or manufactured. In both instances, these drug sales and 
usage result in increased criminal activity, dangerous overdoses, and death.  
Methods of Obtaining Prescription Drugs A review of multiple studies highlights 
a variety of ways individuals obtain prescription drugs. The findings are 
summarized below: 55% free from a friend or relative. 20% from a prescriber. 10% 
purchased from a friend or relative. 5% stolen from a friend or relative. 5% 
purchased from a drug dealer. 2% from multiple doctors. 1% through theft from a 
medical practice or pharmacy. Less than 1% obtained them from the internet. 
Studies also reveal that the source of the majority of these drugs was a single 
legal prescriber. Opioid Knowledge Deficit Among Healthcare Providers There are 
significant knowledge gaps regarding appropriate and inappropriate opioid 
analgesic prescribing, including a lack of understanding of current research, 
legislation, and proper prescribing practices. Healthcare providers often have 
knowledge deficits that include: Understanding of addiction. At-risk opioid 
addiction populations. Prescription versus non-prescription opioid addiction. 
The belief that addiction and dependence on opioids are synonymous. The belief 
that opioid addiction is a psychological problem instead of a chronic painful 
disease. Due to a long history of misunderstanding, poor society, insufficient 
education for healthcare providers, and inconsistent laws, prescribing opioids 
has resulted in significant societal challenges. These challenges can only be 
addressed through comprehensive education and training. Misuse of Controlled 
Substances The misuse of controlled substances resulting in morbidity and 
mortality is rampant. According to the 2016 National Survey on Drug Use and 
Health conducted by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, 
over 10 million people misuse prescription pain medications, and over 2 million 
misuse sedatives, stimulants, and tranquilizers each year. The survey also 
identified pain relief as the most common reason for misuse. The CDC estimates 
that more than 40,000 individuals die each year from an opioid overdose.  
Controlled Substances Three major classes of controlled substances are 
frequently misused—opioids, depressants, and stimulants. Opioids: Opioids are 
commonly prescribed for pain control by binding to mu-opioid receptors in the 
central nervous system (CNS), which reduces the transmission of pain signals to 
the brain. In addition, opioids affect receptors in the gastrointestinal tract 
and respiratory system. These medications are used to treat pain, diarrhea, and 
cough. Common opioids: Codeine: Codeine is one of the most commonly used opioid 
medications. This medication is at the center of the opioid addiction problem in 
the United States and thus is highly regulated. Codeine is primarily prescribed 
for pain and cough. FDA-approved indication: Pain: Codeine is used to treat mild 
to moderate pain. The use of codeine is recognized in chronic pain due to 
ongoing cancer and palliative care. However, the use of codeine to treat other 
types of chronic pain remains controversial. Chronic pain, defined by the 
International Association for the Study of Pain, is pain persisting beyond the 
standard tissue healing time, which is 3 months. The most common causes of 
non-cancer chronic pain include back pain, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, and 
headache. Non–FDA-approved indications: Cough: Codeine is useful in treating 
various etiologies that produce a chronic cough. Additionally, 46% of patients 
with chronic cough do not have a distinct etiology despite undergoing a proper 
diagnostic evaluation. In such cases, codeine has been shown to reduce both the 
frequency and severity of coughs. However, the evidence supporting its 
effectiveness in treating chronic cough is limited. The dose can vary from 15 to 
120 mg/d. In specific populations such as lung cancer, codeine is indicated for 
managing prolonged cough, typically as 30 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed. 
Restless leg syndrome: Codeine is effective in treating restless leg syndrome 
when given at night, especially for individuals whose symptoms are not relieved 
by other medications. Persistent diarrhea (palliative): Codeine and loperamide 
are equally effective for managing persistent diarrhea. The choice between 
codeine and loperamide depends on the physician's evaluation of codeine's 
addictive potential versus loperamide's higher cost, along with the patient's 
susceptibility to adverse effects. Fentanyl: Transdermal patches and intravenous 
formulations are commonly abused and used in combination with other drugs. 
Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid that is 80 to 100 times stronger compared to 
morphine and is often added to heroin to increase its potency. This drug can 
cause severe respiratory depression and death, particularly when mixed with 
other drugs or alcohol. Fentanyl has a high potential for addiction. 
Hydrocodone: Hydrocodone is a Schedule II semi-synthetic opioid medication used 
to treat pain. Immediate-release hydrocodone is available only in combination 
with other agents, such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen, and is approved by the 
FDA for managing pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which 
alternative (nonopioid) treatments are inadequate. Single-entity hydrocodone is 
only available in extended-release formulations and is approved by the FDA to 
treat persistent, severe pain requiring around-the-clock, long-term opioid 
therapy when alternative options are insufficient. Hydrocodone is also an 
antitussive and is indicated for the treatment of cough in adults. Morphine 
sulfate: Morphine sulfate is approved by the FDA for moderate-to-severe 
pain, whether acute or chronic. Most commonly used in pain control, morphine 
provides significant relief to patients afflicted with pain. Clinical situations 
that significantly benefit from medicating with morphine include managing 
palliative or end-of-life care, active cancer treatment, and vaso-occlusive pain 
during sickle cell crises. Morphine is widely used off-label for almost any 
condition that causes pain. In the emergency department, morphine is given for 
musculoskeletal pain, abdominal pain, chest pain, arthritis, and even headaches 
when patients fail to respond to first- and second-line agents. Although 
morphine is rarely used for procedural sedation, clinicians sometimes combine a 
low dose of morphine with a low dose of benzodiazepine, such as lorazepam, for 
minor procedures. Oxycodone: Oxycodone is an opioid agonist prescription 
medication. The immediate-release formulation is approved by the FDA for 
managing acute or chronic moderate-to-severe pain when alternative treatments 
are inadequate and opioid therapy is deemed appropriate. The extended-release 
formulation is approved by the FDA for managing pain severe enough to require 
continuous (24 h/d), long-term opioid treatment, and for which there are no 
alternative options to treat the pain. The oxycodone to morphine dose equivalent 
ratio is approximately 1:1.5 for immediate-release and 1:2 for extended-release 
formulations. Tramadol: Tramadol is an FDA-approved medication for pain relief. 
This medication has specific indications for moderate-to-severe pain. 
Tramadol is classified as a Schedule IV drug by the FDA. Due to its potential 
for abuse and addiction, tramadol should be reserved for pain that is 
unresponsive to other treatments, including nonopioid analgesics. Tramadol is 
available in 2 formulations: extended-release and immediate-release. The 
immediate-release form is not intended for use as an as-needed medication; 
instead, it is for pain of less than 1 week duration. For pain lasting more 
than 1 week, the extended-release form is preferred, as it is indicated for pain 
control under 24-hour management or an extended period. Tramadol has 
demonstrated off-label effectiveness in the management of premature ejaculation 
and restless leg syndrome that is refractory to other treatments. For the 
off-label use of tramadol for premature ejaculation, both sporadic and daily use 
is effective for treating the condition. Patients generally prefer as-needed 
therapy for premature ejaculation due to the lack of adverse effects compared to 
the daily use of tramadol. Addiction, Dependence, and Tolerance Although each of 
these terms is similar, healthcare providers should be aware of the differences. 
Addiction: The constant need for a drug despite harmful consequences. 
Pseudoaddiction: Constant fear of being in pain and hypervigilance; typically, 
there is a resolution with pain resolution. Dependence: Physical adaptation to a 
medication where it is necessary for normal function, and withdrawal occurs with 
the lack of drugs. Tolerance: The lack of expected response to a medication, 
increasing dose to achieve the same pain relief, resulting from CNS adaptation 
to the medication over time. Mainstreaming Addiction Treatment Act The 
Mainstreaming Addiction Treatment (MAT) Act updates federal guidelines to expand 
the availability of evidence-based treatment to address the opioid epidemic. The 
MAT Act empowers all healthcare providers with a standard controlled substance 
license to prescribe buprenorphine for opioid use disorder, just as they 
prescribe other essential medications. The MAT Act aims to help destigmatize a 
standard of care for opioid use disorder and integrate substance use disorder 
treatment across all healthcare settings.  As of December 2022, the MAT Act has 
eliminated the DATA-Waiver (X-Waiver) program. All DEA-registered practitioners 
with Schedule III authority may now prescribe buprenorphine for opioid use 
disorder in their practice if permitted by applicable state law, and the 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration encourages 
practitioners to do so. Prescribers who were registered as DATA-Waiver 
prescribers receive a new DEA registration certificate reflecting this change; 
no action is required on their part. There are no longer any limits on the 
number of patients with opioid use disorder that a practitioner may treat with 
buprenorphine. Separate tracking of patients treated with buprenorphine or 
prescriptions written is no longer required. Pharmacy staff can now fill 
buprenorphine prescriptions using the prescribing authority's DEA number and do 
not need a DATA 2000 waiver from the prescriber. However, depending on the 
pharmacy, the dispensing software may still require the X-Waiver information to 
proceed. Practitioners are still required to comply with any applicable state 
limits regarding the treatment of patients with opioid use disorder. For more 
information or assistance, contact your State Opioid Treatment Authority.

Copyright © 2026, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 30726003

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Charles Preuss declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Arun Kalava 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Kevin King declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies.


3. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Jul 6;131(1):37-46. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-131-1-199907060-00009.

Management of pain and spinal cord compression in patients with advanced cancer. 
ACP-ASIM End-of-life Care Consensus Panel. American College of 
Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine.

Abrahm JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2000 Apr 4;132(7):593. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-132-7-200004040-00019.

General internists often care for patients with advanced cancer. These patients 
have substantial morbidity caused by moderate to severe pain and by spinal cord 
compression. With appropriate multidisciplinary care, pain can be controlled in 
90% of patients who have advanced malignant conditions, and 90% of ambulatory 
patients with spinal cord compression can remain ambulatory. Guidelines have 
been developed for assessing and managing patients with these problems, but 
implementing the guidelines can be problematic for physicians who infrequently 
need to use them. This paper traces the last year of life of Mr. Simmons, a 
hypothetical patient who is dying of refractory prostate cancer. Mr. Simmons and 
his family interact with professionals from various disciplines during this 
year. Advance care planning is completed and activated. Practical suggestions 
are offered for assessment and treatment of all aspects of his pain, including 
its physical, psychological, social, and spiritual dimensions. The methods of 
pain relief used or discussed include nonpharmacologic techniques, nonopioid 
analgesics, opioids, adjuvant medications, radiation therapy, and 
radiopharmaceutical agents. Overcoming resistance to taking opioids; initiating, 
titrating, and changing opioid routes and agents; and preventing or relieving 
the side effects they induce are also covered. Data on assessment and treatment 
of spinal cord compression are reviewed. Physicians can use the techniques 
described to more readily implement existing guidelines and provide comfort and 
optimize quality of life for patients with advanced cancer.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-131-1-199907060-00009
PMID: 10391814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Affect Disord. 2025 Apr 1;374:390-396. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.01.054. Epub 
2025 Jan 14.

Hepatic adverse events associated with ketamine and esketamine: A 
population-based disproportionality analysis.

Kwan ATH(1), Lakhani M(2), Teopiz KM(3), Wong S(4), Le GH(5), Ho RC(6), Rhee 
TG(7), Cao B(8), Rosenblat JD(9), Mansur R(10), McIntyre RS(11).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Brain and 
Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: angela.kwan@mail.utoronto.ca.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Brain and 
Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: 
mlakh088@uottawa.ca.
(3)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: kayla.teopiz@mail.utoronto.ca.
(4)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Mood Disorder Psychopharmacology Unit, University Health 
Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: 
sabrinal.wong@mail.utoronto.ca.
(5)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Institute 
of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Mood 
Disorder Psychopharmacology Unit, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. Electronic address: hanny.le@mail.utoronto.ca.
(6)Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, 
National University of Singapore, Singapore; Institute for Health Innovation and 
Technology (iHealthtech), National University of Singapore, Singapore; Division 
of Life Science (LIFS), Faculty of Science, Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Hong Kong. Electronic address: rogercmho@ust.hk.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA; 
Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Connecticut School of 
Medicine, Farmington, CT, USA. Electronic address: taeho.rhee@yale.edu.
(8)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality, Faculty of Psychology, Ministry 
of Education, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, PR China. Electronic 
address: bingcao@swu.edu.cn.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada; Mood Disorder Psychopharmacology Unit, University Health 
Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: joshua.rosenblat@uhn.ca.
(10)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: rodrigo.mansur@uhn.ca.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: roger.mcintyre@bcdf.org.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there is disproportionate 
reporting of hepatobiliary disorders in the United States (US) FDA Adverse Event 
Reporting System (FAERS) for individuals prescribed ketamine or esketamine.
DESIGN: We identified Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) 
terms in the FAERS related to hepatobiliary disorders.
MAIN MEASURES: Formulations of ketamine and esketamine were evaluated for the 
proportionality of reporting for each hepatobiliary disorder parameter using the 
reporting odds ratio (ROR). We also estimated the lower limits of 95 % 
confidence intervals of information components (IC025) to determine whether the 
association was significant. Acetaminophen was used as the positive reference 
agent and lithium as the neutral reference agent.
KEY RESULTS: We observed disproportionately lower reporting of hepatitis, liver 
disorder, liver injury, drug-induced liver injury, hepatic failure, and acute 
hepatic failure for ketamine compared to acetaminophen. Additionally, we 
observed disproportionately higher reporting of hepatic function abnormalities 
and hepatic cytolysis for ketamine compared to acetaminophen. For esketamine, we 
did not find disproportionate reporting of any hepatobiliary toxicity relative 
to acetaminophen. However, for ketamine, there was disproportionate lower 
reporting of hepatic function abnormalities, liver disorder and hepatic 
cirrhosis. In contrast, for esketamine, there was disproportionately higher 
reporting of hepatic failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Although causality has not been established, the data support 
recommendations for periodic monitoring of liver function tests, as well as 
clinical surveillance for stigmata of hepatobiliary disease in individuals 
receiving chronic exposure to ketamine and esketamine.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.01.054
PMID: 39818335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Dr. Roger S. 
McIntyre has received research grant support from CIHR/GACD/National Natural 
Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and the Milken Institute; 
speaker/consultation fees from Lundbeck, Janssen, Alkermes, Neumora 
Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Sage, Biogen, Mitsubishi Tanabe, Purdue, 
Pfizer, Otsuka, Takeda, Neurocrine, Sunovion, Bausch Health, Axsome, Novo 
Nordisk, Kris, Sanofi, Eisai, Intra-Cellular, NewBridge Pharmaceuticals, 
Viatris, Abbvie, Atai Life Sciences. Dr. Rodrigo B. Mansur has received research 
grant support from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), the 
Physicians' Services Incorporated (PSI) Foundation and the Baszucki Brain 
Research Fund; and support from an Academic Scholars Award from the Department 
of Psychiatry, University of Toronto. Dr. Joshua D. Rosenblat has received 
research grant support from the Canadian Institute of Health Research (CIHR), 
Physician Services Inc. (PSI) Foundation, Labatt Brain Health Network, Brain and 
Cognition Discovery Foundation (BCDF), Canadian Cancer Society, Canadian 
Psychiatric Association, Academic Scholars Award, American Psychiatric 
Association, American Society of Psychopharmacology, University of Toronto, 
University Health Network Centre for Mental Health, Joseph M. West Family 
Memorial Fund and Timeposters Fellowship and industry funding for 
speaker/consultation/research fees from iGan, Boehringer Ingelheim, Janssen, 
Allergan, Lundbeck, Sunovion and COMPASS. Kayla M. Teopiz has received fees from 
Braxia Scientific Corp. Dr. Taeho Greg Rhee was supported in part by the 
National Institute on Aging (NIA) (#R21AG070666; R21AG078972), National 
Institute of Mental Health (#R21MH117438), National Institute on Drug Abuse 
(#R21DA057540) and Institute for Collaboration on Health, Intervention, and 
Policy (InCHIP) of the University of Connecticut. Dr. Rhee serves as a review 
committee member for Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) and 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and has 
received honoraria payments from PCORI and SAMHSA. Dr. Rhee has also served as a 
stakeholder/consultant for PCORI and received consulting fees from PCORI. Dr. 
Rhee serves as an advisory committee member for International Alliance of Mental 
Health Research Funders (IAMHRF). Dr. Rhee is currently a co-Editor-in-Chief of 
Mental Health Science and has received honorarium payments annually from the 
publisher, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Dr. Roger Ho has received funding from the 
National University of Singapore iHeathtech Other Operating Expenses 
(A-0001415-09-00).


5. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2011 Jul;20(7):1322-8. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-11-0210. Epub 2011 May 17.

A large cohort study of long-term acetaminophen use and prostate cancer 
incidence.

Jacobs EJ(1), Newton CC, Stevens VL, Gapstur SM.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Research Program, American Cancer Society, National Home Office, 
Northwest Atlanta, GA 30303, USA. Eric.Jacobs@cancer.org

BACKGROUND: Use of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAID), particularly long-term use, has been associated with modestly reduced 
risk of prostate cancer in previous epidemiologic studies. Acetaminophen, a 
commonly used pain reliever, is not traditionally considered an NSAID but can 
have anti-inflammatory effects. Few studies have examined the association 
between long-term acetaminophen use and prostate cancer incidence.
METHODS: We examined the association between acetaminophen use and prostate 
cancer incidence among 78,485 men in the Cancer Prevention Study II Nutrition 
Cohort. Information on acetaminophen use was obtained from a questionnaire 
completed at study enrollment in 1992 and updated by using follow-up 
questionnaires in 1997 and every two years thereafter. Relative risks (RR) were 
estimated by using proportional hazards regression models. All models were 
adjusted for age, race, education, body mass index, diabetes, NSAID use, and 
history of prostate-specific antigen testing.
RESULTS: During follow-up from 1992 through 2007, 8,092 incident prostate cancer 
cases were identified. Current regular use of acetaminophen (30 or more pills 
per month) for 5 or more years was associated with lower risk of overall 
prostate cancer (RR = 0.62, 95% CI: 0.44-0.87) and aggressive prostate cancer 
(RR = 0.49, 95% CI: 0.27-0.88). Current regular use of less than 5 years 
duration was not associated with prostate cancer risk.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that long-term regular acetaminophen use may 
be associated with lower prostate cancer risk.
IMPACT: If the association between acetaminophen use and lower risk of prostate 
cancer is confirmed, it could provide clues about biological mechanisms that are 
important in prostate carcinogenesis.

©2011 AACR

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-11-0210
PMID: 21586623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Mov Disord. 2025 Oct;40(10):2209-2219. doi: 10.1002/mds.30308. Epub 2025 Aug
13.

Plasma Metabolomics Profiles in Prodromal and Clinical Parkinson's Disease.

Flores-Torres MH(1), Peng X(1), Jeanfavre S(2), Clish C(2), Wang Y(3), 
McCullough ML(3), Healy B(4), Schwarzschild MA(5), Bjornevik K(1)(2), Ascherio 
A(1)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Metabolomics Platform, Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Population Science, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia, 
USA.
(4)Brigham Multiple Sclerosis Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: The long prodromal phase of Parkinson's disease (PD) and the link 
the disease has with metabolic factors suggest that metabolomics could help 
identify affected individuals at early stages.
OBJECTIVE: The goal was to examine whether plasma metabolomic profiles could 
identify individuals in the prodromal and clinical phase of PD.
METHODS: We quantified and compared the plasma metabolomic profiles of 922 
individuals with PD who provided blood samples at a median of 11 years before 
(n = 809) or 2 years after (n = 113) disease diagnosis to that of matched 
controls, all selected from three established cohort studies (Nurses' Health 
Study, Health Professionals Follow-up Study, and Cancer Prevention Study II). We 
used conditional logistic regression models and machine learning techniques to 
identify metabolites predicting prodromal and clinically manifest PD.
RESULTS: Several metabolites, especially amino acids, acyl-carnitines, and other 
lipids were nominally associated with PD since the years leading to disease 
diagnosis. Metabolites proposed as biomarkers of foods or care products tended 
to be associated with a higher PD risk closer to disease diagnosis. Metabolites 
reflecting higher intake of coffee, smoking, and acetaminophen tended to be 
associated with a lower PD risk over the course of the disease. Metabolomic 
profiles in prodromal samples were unable to accurately predict future clinical 
PD.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolic pathways related to the metabolism of amino acids and 
lipids may be involved in PD progression. Metabolomic differences may also 
result from behavioral changes and medical management, emphasizing the need to 
consider prodromal and clinical data in future studies. © 2025 International 
Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2025 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.30308
PMCID: PMC12380052
PMID: 40799161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial disclosure/Conflict of interest: M. 
Flores-Torres, X. Peng, S. Jeanfavre, C. Clish, Y. Wang, M. McCullough, B. 
Healy, M. Schwarzschild, K. Bjornevik, and A. Alberto report no relevant 
disclosures related to this manuscript.


7. Florida Controlled Substance Prescribing.

Dydyk AM(1), Sizemore DC(2), Fariba KA(3), Sanghavi DK(4), Porter BR(5).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 
Jan–.
2022 Oct 26.

Author information:
(1)Abrazo Central Campus
(2)WVU Medicine
(3)University Hospital
(4)Mayo Clinic
(5)Geisinger Commonwealth School of Medicine and Robert Packer Hospital,

Chronic pain and opioid use and abuse is a significant problem in the United 
States and in Florida. Over one-quarter of United States citizens suffer from 
chronic pain. It is among the most common complaints seen in an outpatient 
clinic and the emergency department. The failure to manage chronic pain, as well 
as the possible complication of opioid dependence related to treatment, can 
result in significant morbidity and mortality. One in five patient complaints in 
an outpatient clinic is related to pain, with over half of all patients seeing 
their primary care provider for one pain complaint or another. It is paramount 
that providers have a firm grasp on the management of patients with chronic 
pain. As a country, the United States spends well over 100 billion dollars a 
year on healthcare costs related to pain management and opioid 
dependence. Pain-related expenses exceed those for the costs of cancer, 
diabetes, and heart disease combined. How a patient's chronic pain gets managed 
can have profound and long-lasting effects on a patient's quality of life. 
The International Association for the Study of Pain defines chronic pain as any 
pain lasting longer than three months. There are multiple sources of chronic 
pain. Combination therapy for pain includes both pharmacological therapies and 
nonpharmacological treatment options. There is a more significant reduction in 
pain with combination therapy compared to a single treatment alone. Escalation 
of pharmacological therapy is in a stepwise approach. Comorbid depression and 
anxiety are widespread in patients with chronic pain. Patients with chronic pain 
are also at increased risk for suicide. Chronic pain can impact every facet of a 
patient's life. Thus learning to diagnose and appropriately manage patients 
experiencing chronic pain is critical. Unfortunately, studies have revealed an 
inherent lack of education regarding pain management in most professional 
schools and training programs. Many schools have committed to opioid-related 
education and training by incorporating the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention guidelines for prescribing opioids for chronic pain into the medical 
school curriculum. Appropriate opioid prescribing includes prescribing 
sufficient opioid medication through regular assessment, treatment planning, and 
monitoring to provide effective pain control while avoiding addiction, abuse, 
overdose, diversion, and misuse. To be successful, clinicians must understand 
appropriate opioid prescribing, assessment, the potential for abuse and 
addiction, and potential psychological problems. Inappropriate opioid 
prescribing typically involves not prescribing, under prescribing, 
overprescribing, or continuing to prescribe opioids when they are no longer 
effective. The American Society of Addiction Medicine describes addiction as a 
treatable chronic disease that involves environmental pressures, genetics, an 
individual's life experiences, and interactions among brain 
circuits. Individuals that become addicted to opioids or other medications often 
engage in behaviors that become compulsive and result in dangerous consequences. 
The American Society of Addiction Medicines notes that while the following 
should not be used as diagnostic criteria due to variability among addicted 
individuals, they identify five characteristics of addiction: 1. Craving for 
drug or positive reward. 2. Dysfunctional emotional response. 3. Failure to 
recognize significant problems affecting behavior and relationships. 4. 
Inability to consistently abstain. 5. Impairment in control of behavior. 
Unfortunately, for most health providers, understanding of addiction is often 
confusing, inaccurate, and inconsistent due to the broad range of perspectives 
of those dealing with patients suffering from addiction. While a knowledge gap 
is present among healthcare providers, it is equally prevalent in politicians 
writing laws and law enforcement attempting to enforce the laws they write. 
Payers are responsible for the expenses associated with the evaluation and 
treatment of addiction. Persistent lack of education and the use of obsolete 
terminology continue to contribute to a societal lack of understanding for 
effectively dealing with the challenges of addiction. In the past, the American 
Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 
defined "addiction," "substance abuse," and "substance dependence" separately. 
The result was provider confusion contributed to the under-treatment of pain. 
Over time, the manual has eliminated these terms and now uses "substance use 
disorder," ranging from mild to severe. Unfortunately, there are numerous 
challenges in pain management, such as both underprescribing and overprescribing 
opioids. The concerns are particularly prominent in patients with chronic pain 
and have resulted in patients suffering from inadequately treated pain while at 
the same time there has been a development of concomitant opioid abuse, 
addiction, diversion, and overdose. As a result, providers are often negatively 
influenced and fail to deliver appropriate, effective, and safe opioids to 
patients with chronic pain. Providers have, in the past, been poorly trained and 
ill-informed in their opioid prescribing. To make the challenges even worse, 
chronic pain patients often develop opioid tolerance, significant psychological, 
behavioral, and emotional problems, including anxiety and depression related to 
under or overprescribing opioids.  Clinicians who prescribe opioids face 
challenges that involve medical negligence in either failure to provide adequate 
pain control or risk of licensure or even criminal charges if it is perceived 
they are involved in drug diversion or misuse. All providers that prescribe 
opioids need additional education and training to provide the best patient 
outcomes and avoid the social and legal entanglements associated with over and 
under prescribing opioids. Prescribers of Controlled Substances In Florida: 
Physicians (DOs/MDs). Physician Assistants. Podiatrists. Dentists. Optometrists. 
Advanced Practice Registered Nurses. Veterinarians. Provider Opioid Knowledge 
Deficit  There are substantial knowledge gaps around appropriate and 
inappropriate opioid prescribing, including deficits in understanding current 
research, legislation, and appropriate prescribing practices. Providers often 
have knowledge deficits that include: Understanding of addiction. At-risk opioid 
addiction populations. Prescription vs. non-prescription opioid addiction. The 
belief that addiction and dependence on opioids is synonymous. The belief that 
opioid addiction is a psychologic problem instead related to a chronic painful 
disease. With a long history of misunderstanding, poor society, provider 
education, and inconsistent laws, the prescription of opioids has resulted in 
significant societal challenges that will only resolve with significant 
education and training. Misuse of Controlled Substances Unfortunately, the 
misuse of controlled substances resulting in morbidity and mortality is 
rampant. According to the National Survey on Drug Use and Health,2016, performed 
by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, over 10 million people 
misuse prescription pain medications, and over 2 million misuse sedatives, 
stimulants, and tranquilizers each year. The same study found that the most 
common reason for misuse is for the treatment of physical pain. The Center for 
Disease Control estimates more than 40,000 people die each year die from an 
opioid overdose.  Controlled Substances There are three common classes of 
controlled substances commonly misused: opioids, depressants, and stimulants.  
Opioids Opioids are prescribed for pain control by binding to mu-opioid 
receptors in the central nervous system reducing pain signals to the brain as 
well as receptors in the GI tract and respiratory system, and are used to treat 
pain, diarrhea, and cough. Common Opioids Codeine - One of the most commonly 
taken opioid medications. It is at the center of the opioid addiction problem in 
the United States and thus is highly regulated. Its main indication is for pain 
and cough. FDA-Approved Indication Pain Codeine plays a role in the treatment of 
mild to moderate pain. Its use is recognized in chronic pain due to ongoing 
cancer and palliative care. However, the use of codeine to treat other types of 
chronic pain remains controversial. Chronic pain, defined by the International 
Association for the Study of Pain, is pain persisting beyond the standard tissue 
healing time, which is three months.[1] The most prevalent causes of non-cancer 
chronic pain include back pain, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, and headache. 
Non-FDA Approved Indications Cough Codeine is useful in the treatment of various 
etiologies producing chronic cough. Also, 46% of patients with chronic cough do 
not have a distinct etiology despite a proper diagnostic evaluation. Codeine 
produces a decrease in cough frequency and severity in these patients. However, 
there is limited literature demonstrating the efficacy of codeine in chronic 
cough. The dose can vary from 15 mg to 120 mg a day. It is, however, indicated 
in the management of prolonged cough (in specific populations like lung cancer) 
usually as 30 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Restless Leg Syndrome Codeine is 
effective in treating restless leg syndrome when given at night time, especially 
for those whose symptoms are not relieved by other medications. Persistent 
Diarrhea (Palliative) Codeine and loperamide are equally effective, and the 
choice between them has its basis in the assessment of the physician evaluating 
the small but undoubted addictive potential of codeine versus the higher cost of 
loperamide, and an individual difference in patient's vulnerability to adverse 
effects. Fentanyl - Transdermal patch and IV, commonly abused and used in 
mixture with other drugs. Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid that is 80-100 times 
stronger than morphine and is often added to heroin to increase its potency. It 
can cause severe respiratory depression and death, particularly mixed when mixed 
with other drugs or alcohol. It has a high addiction potential. Hydrocodone 
- Hydrocodone is a schedule II semi-synthetic opioid medication used to treat 
pain. Immediate-release (IR) hydrocodone is available as a combination product 
(combined with acetaminophen, ibuprofen, etc.) and is FDA approved for the 
management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which 
alternative (non-opioid) treatments are inadequate. Single-entity hydrocodone is 
only available in extended-release (ER) formulations. It is FDA approved to 
treat persistent pain severe enough to require 24-hour, long-term opioid 
treatment, and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Hydrocodone is 
also an antitussive and indicated for cough in adults. Morphine Sulfate 
- FDA-approved usage of morphine sulfate includes moderate to severe pain that 
may be acute or chronic. Most commonly used in pain management, morphine 
provides significant relief to patients afflicted with pain. Clinical situations 
that benefit significantly by medicating with morphine include managing 
palliative/end-of-life care, active cancer treatment, and vaso-occlusive pain 
during sickle cell crisis. Morphine is widely used off-label for almost any 
condition that causes pain. In the emergency department, morphine is given for 
musculoskeletal pain, abdominal pain, chest pain, arthritis, and even headaches 
when patients fail to respond to first and second-line agents. Morphine is 
rarely used for procedural sedation. However, clinicians will sometimes combine 
a low dose of morphine with a low dose of benzodiazepine-like lorazepam for 
small procedures. Oxycodone - An opioid agonist prescription medication. The 
oxycodone immediate-release formulation is FDA-approved for the management of 
acute or chronic moderate to severe pain for which other treatments do not 
suffice, and for which the use of opioid medication is appropriate. The 
extended-release formulation is FDA-approved for the management of pain severe 
enough to require continuous (24 hours per day), long-term opioid treatment, and 
for which there are no alternative options to treat the pain. The oxycodone to 
morphine dose equivalent ratio is approximately 1 to 1.5 for immediate-release 
and 1 to 2 for extended-release formulations. Tramadol - Tramadol is an FDA 
approved medication for pain relief. It has specific indications for moderate to 
severe pain. It is considered a class IV drug by the FDA. Due to possible abuse 
and addiction potential, limitations to its use should be for pain that is 
refractive to other pain medication, such as non-opioid pain medication. There 
are two forms of tramadol: extended-release and immediate release. The 
immediate-release is not for use as an "as needed" medication; instead, it is 
for pain of less than a week duration. For pain lasting more than a week, 
extended-release is the therapeutic choice — the indication for extended-release 
is for pain control under 24-hour management or an extended period. Off-label, 
the drug is useful for premature ejaculation and restless leg syndrome 
refractory to other medications. For the off-label use of tramadol for premature 
ejaculation, both sporadic and daily use is effective for the treatment of the 
condition. Patients indicate a preference for "as needed" therapy for premature 
ejaculation due to the lack of side effects compared to the daily use of 
tramadol. Addiction, Dependence, and Tolerance While each of these terms is 
similar, providers should be aware of the differences. Addiction - the constant 
need for a drug despite harmful consequences. Pseudoaddiction - constant fear of 
being in pain, hypervigilance; usually, there is a resolution with pain 
resolution. Dependence - physical adaptation to a medication where it is 
necessary for normal function and withdrawal occurs with lack of the medication. 
Tolerance - lack of expected response to a medication increasing dose to achieve 
the same pain relief resulting from CNS adaptation to the medication over time.

Copyright © 2026, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 33428370

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Alexander Dydyk declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Daniel Sizemore 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Kamron Fariba declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Devang Sanghavi declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Burdett Porter declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.


8. Plast Reconstr Surg Glob Open. 2023 Nov 15;11(11):e5402. doi: 
10.1097/GOX.0000000000005402. eCollection 2023 Nov.

Survey of Surgeon-reported Postoperative Protocols for Deep Inferior Epigastric 
Perforator Flap in Breast Reconstruction.

Araya S(1), Hackley M(2), Amadio GM(2), Deng M(3), Moss C(2), Reinhardt E(4), 
Walchak A(1), Tecce MG(1), Patel SA(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Fox Chase Cancer 
Center, Philadelphia, Pa.
(2)Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa.
(3)Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Facility, Fox Chase Cancer Center, 
Philadelphia, Pa.
(4)Albany Medical College, Albany, N.Y.

BACKGROUND: The use of deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flaps is a 
well-established breast reconstruction technique.
METHODS: A 29-question survey was e-mailed to 3186 active American Society of 
Plastic Surgeons members, aiming to describe postoperative monitoring practice 
patterns among surgeons performing DIEP flaps.
RESULTS: From 255 responses (8%), 79% performing DIEP surgery were analyzed. 
Among them, 34.8% practiced for more than 20 years, 34.3% for 10-20 years, and 
30.9% for less than 10 years. Initial 24-hour post-DIEP monitoring: intensive 
care unit (39%) and floor (36%). Flap monitoring: external Doppler (71%), tissue 
oximetry (41%), and implantable Doppler (32%). Postoperative analgesia: 
acetaminophen (74%), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (69%), 
neuromodulators (52%), and opioids (4.4%) were administered on a scheduled 
basis. On postoperative day 1, 61% halt intravenous fluids, 67% allow 
ambulation, 70% remove Foley catheter, and 71% start diet. Most surgeons 
discharged patients from the hospital on postoperative day 3+. Regardless of 
experience, patients were commonly discharged on day 3. Half of the surgeons are 
in academic/nonacademic settings and discharge on/after day 3.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals significant heterogeneity among the practice 
patterns of DIEP surgeons. In light of these findings, it is recommended that a 
task force be convened to establish standardized monitoring protocols for DIEP 
flaps. Such protocols have the potential to reduce both the length of hospital 
stays and overall care costs all while ensuring optimal pain management and 
vigilant flap monitoring.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf 
of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000005402
PMCID: PMC10653572
PMID: 38025610

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial interest to 
declare in relation to the content of this article. This study was funded by 
NIH/NCI grant P30CA006927 (Fox Chase Cancer Center Support Grant). A Smiles 
Factory grant funded the survey deployment.


9. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2019 Feb 1;111(2):137-145. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djy100.

Analgesic Use and Ovarian Cancer Risk: An Analysis in the Ovarian Cancer Cohort 
Consortium.

Trabert B(1), Poole EM(2), White E(3)(4), Visvanathan K(5), Adami HO(6)(7), 
Anderson GL(3), Brasky TM(8), Brinton LA(1), Fortner RT(9), Gaudet M(10), Hartge 
P(1), Hoffman-Bolton J(5), Jones M(11), Lacey JV(12), Larsson SC(13), Mackenzie 
GG(14), Schouten LJ(15), Sandler DP(16), O'Brien K(16), Patel AV(10), Peters 
U(3), Prizment A(17), Robien K(18), Setiawan VW(19), Swerdlow A(11), van den 
Brandt PA, Weiderpass E(6)(20)(21), Wilkens LR(22), Wolk A(13), Wentzensen N(1), 
Tworoger SS(23)(24); Ovarian Cancer Cohort Consortium (OC3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, MD.
(2)Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(3)Cancer Prevention Program, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA.
(4)Genetic Epidemiology Group, Folkhälsan Research Center, Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD.
(6)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Clinical Effectiveness Research Group, Institute of Health and Society, 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(8)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, College of Medicine, The Ohio 
State University, Columbus, OH.
(9)Division of Cancer Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(10)Epidemiology Research Program, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA.
(11)Division of Genetics and Epidemiology and Division of Breast Cancer 
Research, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK.
(12)City of Hope, Duarte, CA.
(13)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(14)Department of Nutrition, University of California Davis, Davis, CA.
(15)Department of Epidemiology, GROW-School for Oncology and Developmental 
Biology, Maastricht University, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(16)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of 
Health, Research Triangle Park, NC.
(17)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health, and 
Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.
(18)Department of Exercise and Nutrition Sciences, Milken Institute School of 
Public Health, George Washington University, Washington, DC.
(19)University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA.
(20)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Tromsø, The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø, Norway.
(21)Department of Research, Cancer Registry of Norway, Institute of Population 
Based Cancer Research, Oslo, Norway.
(22)University of Hawaii Cancer Center, Honolulu, HI.
(23)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA.
(24)Department of Cancer Epidemiology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL.

BACKGROUND: Aspirin use is associated with reduced risk of several cancers. A 
pooled analysis of 12 case-control studies showed a 10% decrease in ovarian 
cancer risk with regular aspirin use, which was stronger for daily and low-dose 
users. To prospectively investigate associations of analgesic use with ovarian 
cancer, we analyzed data from 13 studies in the Ovarian Cancer Cohort Consortium 
(OC3).
METHODS: The current study included 758 829 women who at study enrollment 
self-reported analgesic use, among whom 3514 developed ovarian cancer. Using Cox 
regression, we assessed associations between frequent medication use and risk of 
ovarian cancer. Dose and duration were also evaluated. All statistical tests 
were two-sided.
RESULTS: Women who used aspirin almost daily (≥6 days/wk) vs infrequent/nonuse 
experienced a 10% reduction in ovarian cancer risk (rate ratio [RR] = 0.90, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] = 0.82 to 1.00, P = .05). Frequent use (≥4 days/wk) of 
aspirin (RR = 0.95, 95% CI = 0.88 to 1.03), nonaspirin nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs; RR = 1.00, 95% CI = 0.90 to 1.11), or 
acetaminophen (RR = 1.05, 95% CI = 0.88 to 1.24) was not associated with risk. 
Daily acetaminophen use (RR = 1.28, 95% CI = 1.00 to 1.65, P = .05) was 
associated with elevated ovarian cancer risk. Risk estimates for frequent, 
long-term (10+ years) use of aspirin (RR = 1.15, 95% CI = 0.98 to 1.34) or 
nonaspirin NSAIDs (RR = 1.19, 95% CI = 0.84 to 1.68) were modestly elevated, 
although not statistically significantly so.
CONCLUSIONS: This large, prospective analysis suggests that women who use 
aspirin daily have a slightly lower risk of developing ovarian cancer (∼10% 
lower than infrequent/nonuse)-similar to the risk reduction observed in 
case-control analyses. The observed potential elevated risks for 10+ years of 
frequent aspirin and NSAID use require further study but could be due to 
confounding by medical indications for use or variation in drug dosing.

Published by Oxford University Press 2018.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djy100
PMCID: PMC6376910
PMID: 29860330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Metabolites. 2018 Sep 21;8(4):55. doi: 10.3390/metabo8040055.

Metabolomics Approach for Validation of Self-Reported Ibuprofen and 
Acetaminophen Use.

Dennis KK(1), Carter BD(2), Gapstur SM(3), Stevens VL(4).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Health Sciences, Laney Graduate School, Emory University 615 
Michael Street, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. kkdenni@emory.edu.
(2)Behavioral and Epidemiology Research Group, American Cancer Society, 250 
Williams Street, NW, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA. brian.carter@cancer.org.
(3)Behavioral and Epidemiology Research Group, American Cancer Society, 250 
Williams Street, NW, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA. susan.gapstur@cancer.org.
(4)Behavioral and Epidemiology Research Group, American Cancer Society, 250 
Williams Street, NW, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA. victoria.Stevens@cancer.org.

Over-the-counter analgesic use is common and is typically assessed through 
self-report; therefore, it is subject to misclassification. Detection of drug 
metabolites in biofluids offers a viable tool for validating self-reported 
analgesic use. Thus, the aim of this study was to determine the utility of a 
metabolomics approach for the validation of acetaminophen and ibuprofen use in 
blood samples. Untargeted mass spectrometry-based metabolomics analysis was 
conducted in serum samples from 1547 women and plasma samples from 556 men. The 
presence of two metabolites each for acetaminophen and ibuprofen at levels at or 
above a defined cutoff value was used to determine concordance with 
self-reported use. For acetaminophen use based on the presence of both 
acetaminophen and acetamidophenylglucuronide, concordance was 98.5⁻100% among 
individuals reporting use today, and 79.8⁻91.4% for those reporting never or 
rare use. Ibuprofen use based on the presence of both carboxyibuprofen and 
hydroxyibuprofen resulted in concordance of 51.3⁻52.5% for individuals reporting 
use today and 99.4⁻100% for those reporting never or rare use. Our findings 
suggest that an untargeted metabolomics approach in blood samples may be useful 
for validating self-reported acetaminophen use. However, this approach appears 
unlikely to be suitable for validating ibuprofen use.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo8040055
PMCID: PMC6316588
PMID: 30248901

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


11. Neurology. 2023 Dec 12;101(24):e2560-e2570. doi:
10.1212/WNL.0000000000207964.  Epub 2023 Nov 22.

Simultaneous Comparisons of 25 Acute Migraine Medications Based on 10 Million 
Users' Self-Reported Records From a Smartphone Application.

Chiang CC(1), Fang X(1), Horvath Z(1), Cadiou F(1), Urani A(1), Poh W(1), 
Narimatsu H(1), Cheng Y(1), Dodick DW(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology (C.-C.C.), Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; 
Graduate School of Health Innovation (X.F., H.N.), Kanagawa University of Human 
Services, Kawasaki; IBM Client Engineering (X.F.), Banking Financial Market 
Unit, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan; Healint Pte. Ltd. (Z.H., F.C., A.U., W.P.), 
Singapore; Cancer Prevention and Cancer Control Division (H.N.), Kanagawa Cancer 
Center Research Institute; Department of Genetic Medicine (H.N.), Kanagawa 
Cancer Center, Yokohama, Japan; Department of Statistics (Y.C.), University of 
Pittsburgh, PA; and Department of Neurology (D.W.D.), Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, 
AZ.

Erratum in
    Neurology. 2024 Jul 9;103(1):e209596. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000209596.

Comment in
    MMW Fortschr Med. 2024 Jun;166(10):26. doi: 10.1007/s15006-024-3986-0.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Many acute treatment options exist for migraine. 
However, large-scale, head-to-head comparisons of treatment effectiveness from 
real-world patient experience reports are lacking.
METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis of 10,842,795 migraine attack records 
extracted from an e-diary smartphone application between June 30, 2014, and July 
2, 2020. We analyzed 25 acute medications among 7 classes-acetaminophen, 
nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), triptans, combination analgesics, 
ergots, antiemetics, and opioids. Gepants and ditan were not included in this 
analysis. Different doses and formulations of each medication, according to the 
generic names, were combined in this analysis. We used a 2-level nested logistic 
regression model to analyze the odds ratio (OR) of treatment effectiveness of 
each medication by adjusting concurrent medications and the covariance within 
the same user. Subgroup analyses were conducted for users in the United States, 
the United Kingdom, and Canada.
RESULTS: Our final analysis included 4,777,524 medication-outcome pairs from 
3,119,517 migraine attacks among 278,006 users. Triptans (mean OR 4.8), ergots 
(mean OR 3.02), and antiemetics (mean OR 2.67) were the top 3 classes of 
medications with the highest effectiveness, followed by opioids (mean OR 2.49), 
NSAIDs (other than ibuprofen, mean OR 1.94), combination analgesics 
(acetaminophen/acetylsalicylic acid/caffeine) (OR 1.69, 95% CI 1.67-1.71), 
others (OR 1.49, 95% CI 1.47-1.50), and acetaminophen (OR 0.83, 95% CI 
0.83-0.84), using ibuprofen as the reference. Individual medications with the 
highest ORs were eletriptan (OR 6.1, 95% CI 6.0-6.3), zolmitriptan (OR 5.7, 95% 
CI 5.6-5.8), and sumatriptan (OR 5.2, 95% CI 5.2-5.3). The ORs of acetaminophen, 
NSAIDS, combination analgesics, and opioids were mostly around or less than 1, 
suggesting similar or lower reported effectiveness compared with ibuprofen. The 
ORs for 24 medications, except that of acetylsalicylic acid, achieved 
statistical significance with p < 0.0001, and our nested logistic regression 
model achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.849. Country-specific subgroup 
analyses revealed similar ORs of each medication and AUC (United States 0.849, 
United Kingdom 0.864, and Canada 0.842), demonstrating the robustness of our 
analysis.
DISCUSSION: Using a big data approach, we analyzed patient-generated real-time 
records of 10 million migraine attacks and conducted simultaneous head-to-head 
comparisons of 25 acute migraine medications. Our findings that triptans, 
ergots, and antiemetics are the most effective classes of medications align with 
the guideline recommendations and offer generalizable insights to complement 
clinical practice.
CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class IV evidence that for 
patients with migraine, selected acute medications (e.g., triptans, ergots, 
antiemetics) are associated with higher odds of user-rated positive response 
than ibuprofen.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000207964
PMCID: PMC10791049
PMID: 38030397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following authors have no financial 
disclosure: X. Fang, H. Narimatsu, and Y. Cheng. C.-C. Chiang reports the 
following disclosures—consulting: Satsuma, eNeura. Z. Horvath, F. Cadiou, A. 
Urani, W. Poh were employees of Healint Pte. Ltd. D.W. Dodick reports the 
following disclosures—consulting: Amgen, Atria, Cerecin, Cooltech, Ctrl M, 
Allergan, Abbvie, Biohaven, GSK, Lundbeck, Eli Lilly, Novartis, Impel, Satsuma, 
Theranica, WL Gore, Genentech, Nocira, Perfood, Praxis, Pfizer, AYYA 
Biosciences, Revance. Honoraria: American Academy of Neurology, Headache 
Cooperative of the Pacific, MF Med Ed Research, Biopharm Communications, CEA 
Group Holding Company (Clinical Education Alliance LLC), Teva (speaking), Amgen 
(speaking), Eli Lilly (speaking), Lundbeck (speaking), Vector psychometric 
Group, Clinical Care Solutions, CME Outfitters, Curry Rockefeller Group, 
DeepBench, Global Access Meetings, KLJ Associates, Academy for Continued 
Healthcare Learning, Majallin LLC, Medlogix Communications, Medica 
Communications LLC, MJH Lifesciences, Miller Medical Communications, Synapse, 
WebMD Health/Medscape, Wolters Kluwer, Oxford University Press, Cambridge 
University Press. Nonprofit board membership: American Brain Foundation, 
American Migraine Foundation, ONE Neurology, Precon Health Foundation, 
International Headache Society Global Patient Advocacy Coalition, Atria Health 
Collaborative, Domestic Violence HOPE Foundation/Panfila. Research Support: 
Department of Defense, NIH, Henry Jackson Foundation, Sperling Foundation, 
American Migraine Foundation, Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute 
(PCORI). Stock Options/Shareholder/Patents/Board of Directors: Ctrl M (options), 
Aural analytics (options), ExSano (options), Palion (options), Healint 
(options), Theranica (options), Second Opinion/Mobile Health (options), Epien 
(options/board), Nocira (options), Matterhorn (shares/board), Ontologics 
(shares/board), King-Devick Technologies (options/board), Precon Health 
(options/board), AYYA Biosciences (options), Axon Therapeutics (options/board), 
Cephalgia Group (options/board), Atria Health (options/employee). Patent 
17189376.1-1466:vTitle: Botulinum Toxin Dosage Regimen for Chronic Migraine 
Prophylaxis. Go to Neurology.org/N for full disclosures.


12. Hepatology. 2019 May;69(5):2164-2179. doi: 10.1002/hep.30422. Epub 2019 Mar
11.

p53 Up-regulated Modulator of Apoptosis Induction Mediates Acetaminophen-Induced 
Necrosis and Liver Injury in Mice.

Chen D(1)(2), Ni HM(3), Wang L(1)(2), Ma X(3), Yu J(1)(4), Ding WX(3), Zhang 
L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, PA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutics, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA.

Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is one of the leading causes of hepatotoxicity and 
acute liver failure in the United States. Accumulating evidence suggests that 
hepatocyte necrosis plays a critical role in APAP-induced liver injury (AILI). 
However, the mechanisms of APAP-induced necrosis and liver injury are not fully 
understood. In this study, we found that p53 up-regulated modulator of apoptosis 
(PUMA), a B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) homology domain 3 (BH3)-only Bcl-2 family 
member, was markedly induced by APAP in mouse livers and in isolated human and 
mouse hepatocytes. PUMA deficiency suppressed APAP-induced mitochondrial 
dysfunction and release of cell death factors from mitochondria, and protected 
against APAP-induced hepatocyte necrosis and liver injury in mice. PUMA 
induction by APAP was p53 independent, and required receptor-interacting protein 
kinase 1 (RIP1) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) by transcriptional activation. 
Furthermore, a small-molecule PUMA inhibitor, administered after APAP treatment, 
mitigated APAP-induced hepatocyte necrosis and liver injury. Conclusion: Our 
results demonstrate that RIP1/JNK-dependent PUMA induction mediates AILI by 
promoting hepatocyte mitochondrial dysfunction and necrosis, and suggest that 
PUMA inhibition is useful for alleviating acute hepatotoxicity attributed to 
APAP overdose.

© 2018 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.30422
PMCID: PMC6461480
PMID: 30552702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare that 
there are no conflicts of interest.


13. Cureus. 2024 Dec 30;16(12):e76644. doi: 10.7759/cureus.76644. eCollection
2024  Dec.

Liver Bed Infiltration With Isobaric Levobupivacaine Versus Intravenous 
Paracetamol Analgesia for Postoperative Pain Management in Patients Undergoing 
Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy.

Dhar S(1), Kaur A(1), Panghal R(1), Mushtaq M(2), Kaur I(1), Gupta A(3), Kumar 
P(1), Deeba F(4).

Author information:
(1)Anesthesia, Adesh Medical College and Hospital, Kurukshetra, IND.
(2)Anesthesia, Ujala Healthcare Services Private Limited, Kashipur, IND.
(3)Anesthesia, Mahavir Sansthan Cancer Hospital, Patna, IND.
(4)Anesthesia, Rohilkhand Medical College and Hospital, Bareilly, IND.

Objectives The study aimed to compare the use of isobaric levobupivacaine for 
liver bed infiltration and intravenous analgesia with paracetamol 
(acetaminophen) in managing postoperative pain in patients undergoing 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Methods An observational study was conducted on 80 
patients scheduled for elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Inclusion criteria 
comprised adults of American Society of Anesthesiologists grade I, aged 18-65, 
undergoing elective surgeries. Exclusion criteria were contraindications to 
local anesthetics, history of chronic pain disorders, or ongoing opioid therapy. 
Participants were divided into two groups: Group LB receiving 30-40 ml 0.5% 
isobaric levobupivacaine for liver bed infiltration, and Group P receiving 
paracetamol 1 g intravenous during surgery just after removing the gallbladder 
out of the laparoscopic port. Primary outcomes included pain scores assessed 
using the visual analog scale (VAS) at one hour, six hours, 12 hours, 18 hours, 
and 24 hours postoperatively. Secondary outcomes included the total analgesic 
consumption, patient satisfaction scores, and any adverse effects experienced. 
Results In Group LB, the VAS scores showed a declining trend, starting at 6.4 ± 
0.8 at one hour and decreasing to 4.5 ± 1.5 at six hours, 4.1 ± 1.7 at 12 hours, 
2.6 ± 1.3 at 18 hours, and 1.3 ± 0.6 at 24 hours. In Group P, the VAS scores 
also decreased, beginning at 7.2 ± 1.1 at one hour, then dropping to 5.2 ± 1.2 
at six hours, 4.8 ± 1.1 at 12 hours, 3.2 ± 0.9 at 18 hours, and 1.8 ± 0.5 at 24 
hours. However, statistically, VAS scores were significantly lower in Group LB 
as compared to Group P at all time points: one hour, six hours, 12 hours, 18 
hours, and 24 hours (p<0.05). Group LB demonstrated significantly better 
outcomes compared to Group P, including a longer time to first rescue analgesia 
(12 vs. five hours, p<0.0001), a reduced dose of additional analgesic 
requirement (3 ± 1 vs. 6 ± 2 µg/kg, p<0.0001), and higher patient satisfaction 
(38 (95%) vs. 23 (57.5%), p=0.0001). The incidence of nausea (3 (7.5%) vs. 6 
(15%), P=0.481) and vomiting (5 (12.5%) vs. 8 (20%), p=0.363) was comparable 
between Group LB and Group P. Conclusion The use of levobupivacaine for liver 
bed infiltration provided adequate pain relief following laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy in comparison to paracetamol intravenous analgesia. Side effects 
like nausea and vomiting were statistically comparable in both groups. Overall, 
levobupivacaine for liver bed infiltration is a safe and effective option for 
controlling pain and increasing satisfaction among patients undergoing 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

Copyright © 2024, Dhar et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.76644
PMCID: PMC11781901
PMID: 39898134

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent for treatment and open 
access publication was obtained or waived by all participants in this study. 
Institutional Ethical Committee, Adesh Medical College and Hospital, Kurukshetra 
issued approval IEC/AMCH/05/Nov 2022. Animal subjects: All authors have 
confirmed that this study did not involve animal subjects or tissue. Conflicts 
of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors 
declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no 
financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. 
Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial 
relationships at present or within the previous three years with any 
organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other 
relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships 
or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


14. N Engl J Med. 1991 Dec 5;325(23):1593-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199112053252301.

Aspirin use and reduced risk of fatal colon cancer.

Thun MJ(1), Namboodiri MM, Heath CW Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Statistics, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, 
GA 30329.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1992 May 7;326(19):1289; author reply 1290-1. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM199205073261912.
    N Engl J Med. 1992 May 7;326(19):1289-90; author reply 1290-1.
    N Engl J Med. 1992 May 7;326(19):1290; author reply 1290-1.
    N Engl J Med. 1991 Dec 5;325(23):1644-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199112053252309.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Experiments in animals and two epidemiologic studies in 
humans suggest that aspirin and other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs) may be protective against colon cancer. We tested this hypothesis in a 
prospective mortality study of 662,424 adults who provided information in 1982 
on the frequency and duration of their aspirin use. Death rates from colon 
cancer were measured through 1988. The possible influence of other risk factors 
for colon cancer was examined in multivariate analyses for 598 case patients and 
3058 matched control subjects drawn from the cohort.
RESULTS: Death rates from colon cancer decreased with more frequent aspirin use 
in both men and women. The relative risk among persons who used aspirin 16 or 
more times per month for at least one year was 0.60 in men (95 percent 
confidence interval, 0.40 to 0.89) and 0.58 in women (95 percent confidence 
interval, 0.37 to 0.90). The risk estimates were unaffected when we excluded 
persons who reported at entry into the study that they had cancer, heart 
disease, stroke, or another condition that might influence both their aspirin 
use and their mortality. Adjustment for dietary factors, obesity, physical 
activity, and family history did not alter the findings significantly. No 
association was found between the use of acetaminophen and the risk of colon 
cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Regular aspirin use at low doses may reduce the risk of fatal colon 
cancer. Whether this is due to a direct effect of aspirin, perhaps mediated by 
the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, or to other factors indirectly 
associated with aspirin use is unclear.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199112053252301
PMID: 1669840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Pain Physician. 2014 Sep-Oct;17(5):393-400.

Efficacy and safety of dexmedetomidine added to caudal bupivacaine in pediatric 
major abdominal cancer surgery.

Fares KM(1), Othman AH, Alieldin NH.

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor of Anesthesia, ICU and Pain Relief, South Egypt Cancer 
Institute, Assiut University, Egypt; Lecturer of Anesthesia, ICU and Pain 
Relief, South Egypt Cancer Institute, Assiut University, Egypt; and Professor of 
Biostatistics and Cancer.

BACKGROUND: Caudal analgesia has been prolonged by the addition of various 
adjuvants. Dexmedetomidine is a highly selective alpha-2 agonist with sedative 
and analgesic properties.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of addition of dexmedetomidine to 0.25% 
bupivacaine for caudal analgesia in children undergoing major abdominal cancer 
surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: A randomized double-blind trial.
SETTING: Academic medical center.
METHODS: Forty pediatric patients, aged 3 - 12 years, weighting 10 - 40 kg, and 
of American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I and II 
scheduled for major abdominal cancer surgeries under general anesthesia combined 
with caudal analgesia were enrolled. They were randomly allocated into 2 groups: 
Group I (BD): (n = 20) received 1 mL/kg bupivacaine 0.25% with dexmedetomidine 1 
μg/kg and group II (B): (n = 20) received 1 mL/kg bupivacaine 0.25%. Heart rate 
(HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and oxygen saturation (SPO2) were recorded 
for 120 minutes. Pain was assessed immediately postoperative and at hours 2, 4, 
6, 12, 18, and 24 of postoperative period by Face, Legs, Activity, Cry and 
Consolability (FLACC) score. Time to first request for analgesia and total 
analgesic consumption in the first 24 hours were recorded. The level of sedation 
was recorded using Ramsay's sedation scale [Intravenous acetaminophen 15mg/kg 
(perfalgan, Squibb)]. Adverse effects were recorded and treated.
RESULTS: There was significant reduction in FLACC score in group BD at 2, 4, 6, 
and 12 hours postoperatively compared to group B. At the eighteenth and 
twenty-fourth hour there was no significant difference. Time of the first rescue 
analgesic requirement was significantly prolonged in group BD compared to group 
B. The mean total consumption of rescue analgesia in the 24 hours of the 
postoperative period was significantly decreased in group BD (405.00 ± 215.03) 
mg when compared with group B (810.35 ± 200.93) mg.
LIMITATIONS: This study is limited by its small sample size.
CONCLUSION: Addition of dexmedetomidine (1 μg/kg) to caudal bupivacaine 0.25% (1 
mL/kg) in pediatric major abdominal cancer surgeries achieved significant 
postoperative pain relief for up to 19 hours, with less use of postoperative 
analgesics, and prolonged duration of arousable sedation. Hemodynamic changes 
were statistically significant, yet of no clinical significance.

PMID: 25247897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Sep 28;17(19):7097. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17197097.

Independent Research on Cancer Pain Management in the Setting of Early 
Palliative Care: A Flywheel to Counteract General Opioid Misuse and Abuse.

Bandieri E(1), Potenza L(2), Efficace F(3), Bruera E(4), Luppi M(2).

Author information:
(1)Oncology and Palliative Care Units, Civil Hospital Carpi, USL, 41012 Carpi, 
Italy.
(2)Hematology Unit and Chair, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria di Modena and 
Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio 
Emilia, 41125 Modena, Italy.
(3)Italian Group for Adult Hematologic Diseases (GIMEMA), Data Center and Health 
Outcomes Research Unit, 00182 Rome, Italy.
(4)Palliative Care & Rehabilitation Medicine, UT MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TA 77030, USA.

The increased recognition of the high prevalence and important burden of cancer 
pain and the documentation of a large proportion of patients receiving 
inadequate analgesic treatment should have reinforced the need for 
evidence-based recommendations. The World health Organization (WHO) guidelines 
on cancer pain management-or palliative care-are traditionally based on a 
sequential, three-step, analgesic ladder according to pain intensity: nonopioids 
(paracetamol or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) to mild pain in step I; 
weak opioids (eg, codeine or tramadol) to mild-moderate pain in step II; and 
strong opioids to moderate-severe pain in step. III. Despite the widespread use 
of this ladder, unrelieved pain continues to be a substantial concern in one 
third of patients with either solid or hematologic malignancies. The sequential 
WHO analgesic ladder, and in particular, the usefulness of step II opioids have 
been questioned but there are no universally used guidelines for the treatment 
of pain in patients with advanced cancer and not all guideline recommendations 
are evidence-based. The American Society of Clinical Oncology and the European 
Society of Medical Oncology have recommended the implementation of early 
palliative care (EPC), which is a novel model of care, consisting of delivering 
dedicated palliative service concurrent with active treatment as early as 
possible in the cancer disease trajectory. Improvement in cancer pain management 
is one of the several important positive effects following EPC interventions. 
Independent well-designed research studies on pharmacological interventions on 
cancer pain, especially in the EPC setting are warranted and may contribute to 
spur research initiatives to investigate the poorly addressed issues of pain 
management in non cancer patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17197097
PMCID: PMC7579568
PMID: 32998243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest 
related to the Commentary.


17. Cancer Res. 1993 Mar 15;53(6):1322-7.

Aspirin use and risk of fatal cancer.

Thun MJ(1), Namboodiri MM, Calle EE, Flanders WD, Heath CW Jr.

Author information:
(1)American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia 30329.

Comment in
    Cancer Res. 1993 Dec 15;53(24):6074.

Aspirin and other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs inhibit prostaglandin 
synthesis and tumor growth in many experimental systems, but it is unclear which 
of these tumor models are relevant to humans. We have reported reduced risk of 
fatal colon cancer among persons who used aspirin in a large prospective study. 
This analysis examines other fatal cancers in relation to aspirin among 635,031 
adults in that study who provided information in 1982 on the frequency and 
duration of their aspirin use and did not report cancer. Death rates were 
measured through 1988. Death rates decreased with more frequent aspirin use for 
cancers of the esophagus, stomach, colon, and rectum but not generally for other 
cancers. For each digestive tract cancer, death rates were approximately 40% 
lower among persons who used aspirin 16 times/month or more for at least 1 year 
compared to those who used no aspirin. The trend of decreasing risk with more 
frequent aspirin use was strongest among persons who had used aspirin for 10 
years or more; it remained statistically significant, except for esophageal 
cancer, in multivariate analyses that adjusted for other known risk factors. 
Biases such as early detection or aspirin avoidance among cases do not appear to 
explain the results. Our data suggest that regular, prolonged use of aspirin may 
reduce the risk of fatal cancer of the esophagus, stomach, colon, and rectum. 
Future epidemiological and basic research should examine all digestive tract 
cancers in considering the chemopreventive or therapeutic potential of 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs.

PMID: 8443812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Anesth Pain Med. 2016 Jul 2;6(4):e33526. doi: 10.5812/aapm.33526. eCollection
 2016 Aug.

Multi-Modal Preemptive Analgesia With Pregabalin, Acetaminophen, Naproxen, and 
Dextromethorphan in Radical Neck Dissection Surgery: A Randomized Clinical 
Trial.

Amiri HR(1), Mirzaei M(1), Beig Mohammadi MT(1), Tavakoli F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Imam Khomeini Hospital 
Complex, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Preemptive analgesia may be considered as a method not only to 
alleviate postoperative pain but also to decrease analgesic consumption. 
Different regimens are suggested, but there is currently no standard.
OBJECTIVES: The aim was to measure the efficacy of preemptive analgesia with 
pregabalin, acetaminophen, naproxen, and dextromethorphan in radical neck 
dissection surgery for reducing the intensity of pain and morphine consumption.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study was conducted as a randomized double-blind 
clinical trial. Eighty adult patients (18 to 60 years of age) under the American 
society of anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I and II undergoing elective 
radical neck dissection were enrolled. Patients were randomized into two groups 
of 40 with a simple randomization method. The case group received a combination 
of 15 mg/kg acetaminophen, 2.5 mg/kg pregabalin, 7 mg/kg naproxen, and 0.3 mg/kg 
dextromethorphan administered orally one hour prior to surgery. Postoperative 
pain was assessed with the universal pain assessment tool (UPAT) at 0, 2, 4, 6, 
12, and 24 hours after surgery. Subjects received morphine based on 
postoperative pain control protocol. Total administered morphine doses were 
noted.
RESULTS: Postoperative pain rates at 0, 2, 4, 6, 12, and 24 hours after surgery 
were significantly lower for the case group than the control group (P values = 
0.014, 0.003, 0.00, 0.00, and 0.00, respectively). Total morphine doses for the 
preemptive analgesia group were 45% lower than those of the other group. Side 
effects were similar for both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: A single preoperative oral dose of pregabalin, acetaminophen, 
dextromethorphan, and naproxen one hour before surgery is an effective method 
for reducing postoperative pain and morphine consumption in patients undergoing 
radical neck dissection.

DOI: 10.5812/aapm.33526
PMCID: PMC5099949
PMID: 27843771


19. J Affect Disord. 2024 Oct 15;363:589-594. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2024.07.128.
Epub  2024 Jul 17.

A replication study using the World Health Organization pharmacovigilance 
database (VigiBase®) to evaluate whether an association between ketamine and 
esketamine and alcohol and substance misuse exists.

Kwan ATH(1), Rosenblat JD(2), Mansur RB(3), Rhee TG(4), Teopiz K(5), Le GH(6), 
Wong S(7), Cao B(8), Ho R(9), McIntyre RS(10).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; Brain and 
Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: 
angela.kwan@mail.utoronto.ca.
(2)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: joshua.rosenblat@uhn.ca.
(3)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: rodrigo.mansur@uhn.ca.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA; 
Department of Public Health Sciences, Farmington, CT, USA. Electronic address: 
taeho.rhee@yale.edu.
(5)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: admin@bcdf.org.
(6)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Institute 
of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic 
address: hanny.le@mail.utoronto.ca.
(7)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: sabrinal.wong@mail.utoronto.ca.
(8)Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality, Faculty of Psychology, Ministry 
of Education, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, PR China. Electronic 
address: bingcao@swu.edu.cn.
(9)Department of Psychological Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, 
National University of Singapore, Singapore; Institute for Health Innovation and 
Technology (iHealthtech), National University of Singapore, Singapore. 
Electronic address: pcmrhcm@nus.edu.sg.
(10)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; 
Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: roger.mcintyre@bcdf.org.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Ketamine and esketamine are increasingly prescribed 
in the treatment of resistant mood disorders and persons at risk of suicide. 
Ketamine is a drug of misuse with increasing non-therapeutic use in the general 
population. Herein, our aim was to determine whether ketamine and/or esketamine 
are disproportionately associated with reports of substance and/or alcohol 
misuse.
METHODS: Replicating a similar analysis recently conducted using the Food and 
Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database, we 
identified cases of "alcohol problem, alcoholism, alcohol abuse, substance 
dependence, substance use disorder (SUD), substance abuse, drug dependence, drug 
use disorder and drug abuse" in association with ketamine and esketamine 
reported to the World Health Organization Pharmacovigilance Database (WHO 
VigiBase). We searched the database from inception to January 2024. The 
reporting odds ratio (ROR) of each of the aforementioned parameters was 
calculated; acetaminophen was used as the control. The numerator of the equation 
represents the number of cases (n) and the denominator represents the total 
cases of psychiatric disorders (N). Significance was obtained when the lower 
limit of the 95 % confidence (CI) > 1.0.
RESULTS: The RORs for ketamine was increased for most parameters (i.e., alcohol 
abuse (3.24), substance dependence (12.48), substance use disorder (170.44), 
substance abuse (2.94), drug dependence (2.88), drug use disorder (11.54) and 
drug abuse (2.85), respectively). With respect to esketamine, the RORs were 
observed to be different from ketamine insofar as we observed a reduction in the 
RORs for three parameters (i.e., substance abuse (0.41), drug dependence (0.083) 
and drug abuse (0.052), respectively). The IC025 values were significant for 
ketamine in cases of alcohol abuse (0.35), substance dependence (0.50), 
substance use disorder (2.77), substance abuse (0.83), drug dependence (0.97), 
drug use disorder (1.95) and drug abuse (0.94). Additionally, oxycontin showed 
significant IC025 values for substance use disorder (0.0014), substance abuse 
(0.042), and drug dependence (0.17).
CONCLUSION: Esketamine was not associated with an increased ROR for any 
parameter of alcohol and/or substance use disorder. Mixed results were observed 
with ketamine with some RORs increased and others decreased. Estimating RORs 
using a pharmacovigilance database does not establish causation in the case of 
elevated RORs and cannot be assumed to be a therapeutic effect when lower RORs 
were observed.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2024.07.128
PMID: 39029700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Dr. Roger S. 
McIntyre has received research grant support from CIHR/GACD/National Natural 
Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and the Milken Institute; 
speaker/consultation fees from Lundbeck, Janssen, Alkermes, Neumora 
Therapeutics, Boehringer Ingelheim, Sage, Biogen, Mitsubishi Tanabe, Purdue, 
Pfizer, Otsuka, Takeda, Neurocrine, Sunovion, Bausch Health, Axsome, Novo 
Nordisk, Kris, Sanofi, Eisai, Intra-Cellular, NewBridge Pharmaceuticals, 
Viatris, Abbvie, Atai Life Sciences. Dr. Roger S. McIntyre is a CEO of Braxia 
Scientific Corp. Dr. Rodrigo B. Mansur has received research grant support from 
the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), the Physicians' Services 
Incorporated (PSI) Foundation and the Baszucki Brain Research Fund; and support 
from an Academic Scholars Award from the Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Toronto. Dr. Joshua D. Rosenblat has received research grant support from the 
Canadian Institute of Health Research (CIHR), Physician Services Inc. (PSI) 
Foundation, Labatt Brain Health Network, Brain and Cognition Discovery 
Foundation (BCDF), Canadian Cancer Society, Canadian Psychiatric Association, 
Academic Scholars Award, American Psychiatric Association, American Society of 
Psychopharmacology, University of Toronto, University Health Network Centre for 
Mental Health, Joseph M. West Family Memorial Fund and Timeposters Fellowship 
and industry funding for speaker/consultation/research fees from iGan, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Janssen, Allergan, Lundbeck, Sunovion and COMPASS. Dr. 
Taeho Greg Rhee serves as a review committee member for Patient-Centered 
Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) and Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration (SAMHSA) and has received honoraria payments from PCORI 
and SAMHSA. Dr. Rhee has also served as a stakeholder/consultant for PCORI and 
received consulting fees from PCORI. Dr. Rhee serves as an advisory committee 
member for International Alliance of Mental Health Research Funders (IAMHRF). 
Dr. Rhee is currently a co-Editor-in-Chief of Mental Health Science and has 
received honorarium payments annually from the publisher, John Wiley & Sons, 
Inc.


20. PLoS One. 2016 Nov 9;11(11):e0166227. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166227. 
eCollection 2016.

Paravertebral Block Plus Thoracic Wall Block versus Paravertebral Block Alone 
for Analgesia of Modified Radical Mastectomy: A Retrospective Cohort Study.

Li NL(1), Yu BL(2), Hung CF(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Koo Foundation Sun Yat-Sen Cancer Center, 
Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Koo Foundation Sun Yat-Sen Cancer Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan, Republic of China.
(3)Biostatistics Section, Office of Clinical Research, Koo Foundation Sun 
Yat-Sen Cancer Center, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Paravertebral block placement was the main anesthetic 
technique for modified radical mastectomy in our hospital until February 2014, 
when its combination with blocks targeting the pectoral musculature was 
initiated. We compared the analgesic effects of paravertebral blocks with or 
without blocks targeting the pectoral musculature for modified radical 
mastectomy.
METHODS: We retrospectively collected data from a single surgeon and 
anesthesiologist from June 1, 2012, to May 31, 2015. Intraoperative sedatives 
and analgesic requirements, time to the first analgesic request, postoperative 
analgesic doses, patient satisfaction, and complications were compared.
RESULTS: Fifty-four patients received a paravertebral block alone (PECS 0), and 
46 received a paravertebral block combined with blocks targeting the pectoral 
musculature (PECS 1). The highest intraoperative effect-site concentration of 
propofol was significantly lower in the PECS 1 group than in the PECS 0 group 
[2.3 (1.5, 2.8) vs 2.5 (1.5, 4) μg/mL, p = 0.0014]. The intraoperative rescue 
analgesic dose was significantly lower in the PECS 1 group [0 (0, 25) vs 0 (0, 
75) mg of ketamine, p = 0.0384]. Furthermore, the PECS 1 group had a 
significantly longer time to the first analgesic request [636.5 (15, 720) vs 
182.5 (14, 720) min, p = 0.0001]. After further adjustment for age, body mass 
index, American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status classification, 
chronic pain history, incidence of a superficial cervical plexus block 
placement, and operation duration, blocks targeting the pectoral musculature 
were determined to be the only significant factor (hazard ratio, 0.36; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.23-0.58; p < 0.0001). Very few patients used potent 
analgesics including morphine and ketorolac; the cumulative use of morphine or 
ketorolac was similar in the study groups. However, the incidence of all 
analgesic use, namely morphine, ketorolac, acetaminophen, and celecoxib, was 
significantly lower in the PECS 1 group [3.5 (0, 6) vs 5 (0, 12), p < 0.0001].
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the placement of a paravertebral block alone, 
combining blocks targeting the pectoral musculature with a paravertebral block 
for modified radical mastectomy reduced the sedative and analgesic requirements 
during operation and provided more effective postoperative analgesia.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166227
PMCID: PMC5102399
PMID: 27829018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


21. Curr Med Res Opin. 2006 Oct;22(10):1949-54. doi: 10.1185/030079906x132659.

Clinical equivalence of IV paracetamol compared to IV dipyrone for postoperative 
analgesia after surgery for breast cancer.

Kampe S(1), Warm M, Landwehr S, Dagtekin O, Haussmann S, Paul M, Pilgram B, 
Kiencke P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. 
Sandra.Kampe@uk-koeln.de

OBJECTIVE: To assess clinical efficacy of IV paracetamol 1 g and IV dipyrone 1 g 
on a 24-h dosing schedule in this randomised, double-blinded study of 40 ASA 
I-III (American Society of Anesthesiologists classification of physical status) 
patients undergoing surgery for breast cancer.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: General anaesthesia using remifentanil and propofol 
was performed for surgery. The patients were randomly allocated to two groups, 
receiving infusions of paracetamol 1 g/100 mL (Para Group) or of dipyrone 1 
g/100 mL (Dipy Group) 30 min before arrival in the recovery area and every 6 h 
up to 24 h postoperatively. All patients had unrestricted access to opioid 
rescue medication via an IV patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) device.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary variables for clinical equivalence were the 
differences between the mean values for pain scores at rest and pain scores on 
coughing over 30 h postoperatively. The equivalence margin was determined as 
+/-10 mm on the visual analogue scale (VAS).
RESULTS: Regarding pain scores at rest, the 90% CI of the mean differences 
between the treatment groups over 30 h postoperatively was found to be within 
the predefined equivalence margin [+7.5/-6.2], and the CI values for pain scores 
on coughing [+7.3/-9.0] were similar. The two groups did not differ in 
cumulative opioid rescue consumption (Dipy-Group 14.8 +/- 17.7 mg vs. Para Group 
12.1 +/- 8.8 mg, p = 0.54) nor in piritramide loading dose (Dipy Group 0.95 +/- 
2.8 mg vs. Para Group 1.3 +/- 2.8 mg, p = 0.545). Five patients in the Dipy 
Group experienced hypotension in contrast to none in the Para Group (p = 0.047). 
There were no significant between-treatment differences for other adverse 
events, patient satisfaction scores (p = 0.4) or quality of recovery scores (p = 
0.3).
CONCLUSION: IV paracetamol 1 g is clinically equivalent to IV dipyrone 1 g for 
postoperative analgesia after surgery for breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1185/030079906x132659
PMID: 17022854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Pharmacology. 2009;84(5):276-81. doi: 10.1159/000242998. Epub 2009 Oct 1.

Clinical equivalence of controlled-release oxycodone 20 mg and 
controlled-release tramadol 200 mg after surgery for breast cancer.

Kampe S(1), Wolter K, Warm M, Dagtekin O, Shaheen S, Landwehr S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Therapy, Ruhrlandklinik, University of 
Essen, DE-45239 Essen, Germany. sandra.kampe@ruhrlandklinik.uk-essen.de

AIMS: To assess clinical equivalence of 20 mg controlled-release oxycodone 
(Oxygesic; Mundipharma, Limburg, Germany) and 200 mg controlled-release tramadol 
(Tramal long; Grunenthal, Aachen, Germany) on a 12-hour dosing schedule in a 
randomized, double-blinded study of 54 ASA I-III physical status (American 
Society of Anesthesiologists classification of physical status) patients 
undergoing surgery for breast cancer.
METHODS: General anesthesia using remifentanil and propofol was performed for 
surgery. Patients were randomly allocated to 2 groups, receiving either 20 mg 
controlled-release oxycodone (Oxy group) or 200 mg controlled-release tramadol 
(Trama group) with the premedication (7.5 mg midazolam) and again 12 hours 
later. All patients had access to rescue medication (i.v. paracetamol). The 
primary variables for clinical equivalence were the differences between the mean 
values for pain scores at rest and pain scores on coughing over 24 hours after 
operation. The equivalence margin was determined as +/-10 on the visual analogue 
scale.
RESULTS: Fifty-four patients were enrolled. Regarding pain scores at rest, the 
90% CI of the mean differences between the treatment groups over 24 hours after 
operation was found to be within the predefined equivalence margin [-4.5 to 
+1.7], and the CI values for pain scores on coughing [-6.2 to +1.7] were 
similar. Cumulative paracetamol given over the 24-hour observation period did 
not differ significantly between the Oxy group (1.32 +/-1.9 g) and the Trama 
group (1.61 +/- 1.1 g; p = 0.32). There were no significant differences between 
the treatment groups regarding adverse events such as nausea (p = 0.13), 
vomiting (p = 0.24) and itching (p = 0.77). Also, no differences were found 
concerning patient satisfaction scores (p = 0.8) or patients' general perception 
of postoperative pain management (p = 0.71).
CONCLUSION: 20 mg controlled-release oxycodone is clinically equivalent to 200 
mg controlled-release tramadol for postoperative analgesia after surgery for 
breast cancer.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000242998
PMID: 19797937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. NP Safe Prescribing of Controlled Substances While Avoiding Drug Diversion.

Dydyk AM(1), Sizemore DC(2), Haddad LM(3), Lindsay L(4), Porter BR(5).

In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2026 
Jan–.
2023 Jan 29.

Author information:
(1)Abrazo Central Campus
(2)WVU Medicine
(3)East Tennessee State University
(4)Un of North Florida
(5)Geisinger Commonwealth School of Medicine and Robert Packer Hospital,

Chronic pain and opioid use and abuse is a significant problem in the United 
States. Over one-quarter of United States citizens suffer from chronic pain. It 
is among the most common complaints in an outpatient clinic and the emergency 
department. The failure to manage chronic pain, as well as the possible 
complication of opioid dependence related to treatment, can result in 
significant morbidity and mortality. One in 5 patient complaints in an 
outpatient clinic is related to pain, with over half of all patients seeing 
their primary care provider for 1 pain complaint or another. It is paramount 
that providers have a firm grasp on the management of patients with chronic 
pain. As a country, the United States spends well over 100 billion dollars a 
year on healthcare costs related to pain management and opioid 
dependence. Pain-related expenses exceed those for the costs of cancer, 
diabetes, and heart disease combined. How a patient's chronic pain gets managed 
can have profound and long-lasting effects on a patient's quality of life. 
The International Association for the Study of Pain defines chronic pain as any 
pain lasting longer than 3 months. There are multiple sources of chronic pain. 
Combination therapy for pain includes both pharmacological therapies and 
nonpharmacological treatment options. There is a more significant reduction in 
pain with combination therapy compared to a single treatment alone. Escalation 
of pharmacological therapy is done using a stepwise approach. Comorbid 
depression and anxiety are widespread in patients with chronic pain. Patients 
with chronic pain are also at increased risk for suicide. Chronic pain can 
impact every facet of a patient's life. Thus, learning to diagnose and 
appropriately manage patients experiencing chronic pain is critical. 
Unfortunately, studies have revealed an inherent lack of education regarding 
pain management in most professional schools and training programs. Many schools 
have committed to opioid-related education and training by incorporating the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for prescribing opioids 
for chronic pain into the medical school curriculum. Appropriate opioid 
prescribing includes prescribing sufficient opioid medication through regular 
assessment, treatment planning, and monitoring to provide adequate pain control 
while avoiding addiction, abuse, overdose, diversion, and misuse. To be 
successful, clinicians must understand appropriate opioid prescribing, 
assessment, the potential for abuse and addiction, and potential psychological 
problems. Inappropriate opioid prescribing typically involves not prescribing, 
underprescribing, overprescribing, or continuing to prescribe opioids when they 
are no longer effective. The American Society of Addiction Medicine describes 
addiction as a treatable chronic disease that involves environmental pressures, 
genetics, an individual's life experiences, and interactions among brain 
circuits. Individuals who become addicted to opioids or other medications often 
engage in behaviors that become compulsive and result in dangerous consequences. 
The American Society of Addiction Medicines notes that while the following 
should not be used as diagnostic criteria due to variability among addicted 
individuals, they identify 5 characteristics of addiction: 1. Craving for drug 
or positive reward. 2. Dysfunctional emotional response. 3. Failure to recognize 
significant problems affecting behavior and relationships. 4. Inability to 
consistently abstain. 5. Impairment in control of behavior. Unfortunately, for 
most health providers, understanding addiction is often confusing, inaccurate, 
and inconsistent due to the broad range of perspectives of those dealing with 
patients suffering from addiction. While a knowledge gap is present among 
healthcare providers, it is equally prevalent in politicians writing laws and 
law enforcement attempting to enforce the laws they write. Payers are 
responsible for the expenses associated with evaluating and treating addiction. 
Persistent lack of education and the use of obsolete terminology continue to 
contribute to a societal lack of understanding for effectively dealing with the 
challenges of addiction. In the past, the American Psychiatric Association's 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders defined "addiction," 
"substance abuse," and "substance dependence" separately. The result was 
provider confusion contributed to the under-treatment of pain. Over time, the 
manual has eliminated these terms and now uses "substance use disorder," ranging 
from mild to severe. Unfortunately, there are numerous challenges in pain 
management, such as both underprescribing and overprescribing opioids. The 
concerns are particularly prominent in patients with chronic pain and have 
resulted in patients suffering from inadequately treated pain. At the same time, 
there has been a development of concomitant opioid abuse, addiction, diversion, 
and overdose. As a result, providers are often negatively influenced and fail to 
deliver appropriate, effective, and safe opioids to patients with chronic pain. 
Providers have, in the past, been poorly trained and ill-informed in their 
opioid prescribing. To make the challenges even worse, chronic pain patients 
often develop opioid tolerance and significant psychological, behavioral, and 
emotional problems, including anxiety and depression related to under or 
overprescribing opioids.  Clinicians who prescribe opioids face challenges that 
involve medical negligence in either failure to provide adequate pain control or 
risk of licensure or even criminal charges if it is perceived they are involved 
in drug diversion or misuse. All providers that prescribe opioids need 
additional education and training to provide the best patient outcomes and avoid 
the social and legal entanglements associated with over and under-prescribing 
opioids. Provider Opioid Knowledge Deficit  There are substantial knowledge gaps 
around appropriate and inappropriate opioid prescribing, including deficits in 
understanding current research, legislation, and appropriate prescribing 
practices. Providers often have knowledge deficits that include: Understanding 
of addiction. At-risk opioid addiction populations. Prescription vs. 
non-prescription opioid addiction. The belief that addiction and dependence on 
opioids are synonymous. The belief that opioid addiction is a psychological 
problem instead related to a chronic painful disease. With a long history of 
misunderstanding, poor society, provider education, and inconsistent laws, the 
prescription of opioids has resulted in significant societal challenges that 
will only be resolved with significant education and training. Misuse of 
Controlled Substances Unfortunately, the misuse of controlled substances 
resulting in morbidity and mortality is rampant. According to the National 
Survey on Drug Use and Health, 2016, performed by the US Department of Health 
and Human Services, over 10 million people misuse prescription pain medications, 
and over 2 million misuse sedatives, stimulants, and tranquilizers each year. 
The same study found that the most common reason for misuse is for the treatment 
of physical pain. The Center for Disease Control estimates more than 40,000 
people die each year from an opioid overdose.  Controlled Substances Three 
common classes of controlled substances are commonly misused: opioids, 
depressants, and stimulants.  Opioids Opioids are prescribed for pain control by 
binding to mu-opioid receptors in the central nervous system, reducing pain 
signals to the brain and receptors in the GI tract and respiratory system, and 
are used to treat pain, diarrhea, and cough. Common Opioids Codeine - One of the 
most commonly taken opioid medications. It is at the center of the opioid 
addiction problem in the United States and thus is highly regulated. Its main 
indication is for pain and cough. FDA-Approved Indication Pain Codeine is used 
to treat mild to moderate pain. Its use is recognized in chronic pain due to 
ongoing cancer and palliative care. However, the use of codeine to treat other 
types of chronic pain remains controversial. Chronic pain, defined by the 
International Association for the Study of Pain, persists beyond the standard 
tissue healing time of 3 months. The most prevalent causes of non-cancer chronic 
pain include back pain, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, and headache. Non-FDA 
Approved Indications Cough Codeine is helpful in the treatment of various 
etiologies producing chronic cough. Also, 46% of patients with chronic cough do 
not have a distinct etiology despite a proper diagnostic evaluation. Codeine 
produces a decrease in cough frequency and severity in these patients. However, 
there is limited literature demonstrating the efficacy of codeine in chronic 
cough. The dose can vary from 15 mg to 120 mg a day. It is, however, indicated 
in the management of prolonged cough (in specific populations like lung cancer), 
usually as 30 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed. Restless Leg Syndrome Codeine is 
effective in the treatment of restless leg syndrome when given at night time, 
especially for those whose symptoms are not relieved by other medications. 
Persistent Diarrhea (Palliative) Codeine and loperamide are equally effective, 
and the choice between them has its basis in the assessment of the physician 
evaluating the small but undoubted addictive potential of codeine versus the 
higher cost of loperamide and an individual difference in a patient's 
vulnerability to adverse effects. Fentanyl - Transdermal patch and IV, commonly 
abused and used in a mixture with other drugs. Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid 
that is 80-100 times stronger than morphine and is often added to heroin to 
increase its potency. It can cause severe respiratory depression and death, 
particularly mixed when mixed with other drugs or alcohol. It has high addiction 
potential. Hydrocodone - Hydrocodone is a schedule II semi-synthetic opioid 
medication used to treat pain. Immediate-release (IR) hydrocodone is available 
as a combination product (combined with acetaminophen, ibuprofen, etc). It is 
FDA-approved for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid 
analgesic and for which alternative (non-opioid) treatments are inadequate. 
Single-entity hydrocodone is only available in extended-release (ER) 
formulations. It is FDA-approved to treat persistent pain severe enough to 
require 24-hour, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatments 
are inadequate. Hydrocodone is also an antitussive and is indicated for cough in 
adults. Morphine Sulfate - FDA-approved usage of morphine sulfate includes 
moderate to severe pain that may be acute or chronic. Most commonly used in pain 
management, morphine provides significant relief to patients afflicted with 
pain. Clinical situations that benefit significantly from medicating with 
morphine include management of palliative/end-of-life care, active cancer 
treatment, and vaso-occlusive pain during a sickle cell crisis. Morphine is 
widely used off-label for almost any condition that causes pain. In the 
emergency department, morphine is given for musculoskeletal pain, abdominal 
pain, chest pain, arthritis, and even headaches when patients fail to respond to 
first and second-line agents. Morphine is rarely used for procedural sedation. 
However, for minor procedures, clinicians will sometimes combine a low dose of 
morphine with a low dose of benzodiazepine-like lorazepam. Oxycodone - An opioid 
agonist prescription medication. The oxycodone immediate-release formulation is 
FDA-approved for the management of acute or chronic moderate to severe pain for 
which other treatments do not suffice and for which the use of opioid medication 
is appropriate. The extended-release formulation is FDA-approved for the 
management of pain severe enough to require continuous (24 hours per day), 
long-term opioid treatment, and for which there are no alternative options to 
treat the pain. The oxycodone to morphine dose equivalent ratio is approximately 
1 to 1.5 for immediate-release and 1 to 2 for extended-release formulations. 
Tramadol - Tramadol is an FDA-approved medication for pain relief. It has 
specific indications for moderate to severe pain. It is considered a class IV 
drug by the FDA. Due to possible abuse and addiction potential, limitations to 
its use should be for pain that is refractive to other pain medication, such as 
non-opioid pain medication. There are 2 forms of tramadol: extended-release and 
immediate-release. The immediate release is not for use as an "as needed" 
medication; instead, it is for pain of less than a week duration. For pain 
lasting more than a week, the extended-release is the therapeutic choice — the 
indication for extended-release is for pain control under 24-hour management or 
an extended period. Off-label, the drug is useful for premature ejaculation and 
restless leg syndrome refractory to other medications. For the off-label use of 
tramadol for premature ejaculation, both sporadic and daily use is effective for 
the treatment of the condition. Patients indicate a preference for "as needed" 
therapy for premature ejaculation due to the lack of side effects compared to 
the daily use of tramadol. Addiction, Dependence, and Tolerance While each of 
these terms is similar, providers should know the differences. Addiction - the 
constant need for a drug despite harmful consequences. Pseudoaddiction - 
constant fear of being in pain, hypervigilance; usually, there is a resolution 
with pain resolution. Dependence - physical adaptation to a medication where it 
is necessary for normal function, and withdrawal occurs with a lack of the 
medication. Tolerance - lack of expected response to a medication, such as 
increasing dose to achieve the same pain relief due to CNS adaptation to the 
medication over time.

Copyright © 2026, StatPearls Publishing LLC.

PMID: 33232099

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: Alexander Dydyk declares no relevant 
financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Daniel Sizemore 
declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. 
Disclosure: Lisa Haddad declares no relevant financial relationships with 
ineligible companies. Disclosure: Linda Lindsay declares no relevant financial 
relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Burdett Porter declares no 
relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies.