1. J Clin Psychiatry. 1987 Apr;48(4):161-3.

Ibuprofen can increase serum lithium level in lithium-treated patients.

Ragheb M.

The interaction between lithium and ibuprofen was studied in nine male patients 
admitted to the geropsychiatric ward of a veterans administration medical 
center. The patients, diagnosed as having bipolar affective disorder or 
schizoaffective disorder, who had been kept on a steady-state lithium level, 
received lithium for 3 days, then lithium and ibuprofen (1800 mg/day) for 6 
days, and then lithium for 5 days. Ibuprofen increased the serum lithium level 
and decreased the lithium clearance with marked interindividual variations. 
These findings indicate that lithium dosage may need to be reduced in some 
patients following initiation of ibuprofen therapy. There was no significant 
correlation between changes in lithium serum level and creatinine clearance. The 
possibility that a tubular renal prostaglandin system may affect lithium 
excretion needs further investigation.

PMID: 3558329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Parkinsons Dis. 2021;11(3):919-935. doi: 10.3233/JPD-202521.

Non-Genetic Risk Factors for Parkinson's Disease: An Overview of 46 Systematic 
Reviews.

Chen Y(1), Sun X(1), Lin Y(1), Zhang Z(1), Gao Y(1), Wu IXY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Xiangya School of Public Health, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(2)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Clinical Epidemiology, Changsha, China.

BACKGROUND: Numerous systematic reviews (SRs) and meta-analyses on non-genetic 
risk factors for Parkinson's disease (PD) development have been published with 
inconsistent conclusions.
OBJECTIVE: This overview of SRs aimed to summarize evidence on non-genetic 
factors for the development of PD from the published SRs, and explore the 
reasons behind the conflicting results.
METHODS: Three international databases were searched for SRs with meta-analyses 
summarized evidence on non-genetic factors for PD development. The Assessing the 
Methodological Quality of Systematic Reviews 2 tool was used to appraise the 
methodological quality of included SRs. Pooled effect estimations were extracted 
from each meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Forty-six SRs covered six categories, and more than 80 factors were 
included in this overview. Thirty-nine SRs (84.7%) were judged to be of 
critically low methodological quality. Evidence from prospective studies showed 
that physical activity, smoking, coffee, caffeine, tea, fat intake, ibuprofen 
use, calcium channel blocker use, statin use, thiazolidinediones, and high serum 
urate levels significantly reduced the risk of PD, while dairy intake, diabetes, 
hormone replacement therapy, depression, mood disorder, bipolar disorder, and 
aspirin use significantly increased the risk of PD. Differences in study designs 
(e.g., cohort studies, case-control studies) accounted for the conflicting 
results among included SRs.
CONCLUSION: Modifiable lifestyle factors such as physical activity and tea and 
coffee drinking may reduce the risk of PD, which may offer PD prevention 
strategies and hypotheses for future research. However, the designs of primary 
studies on PD risk factors and related SRs need to be improved and harmonized.

DOI: 10.3233/JPD-202521
PMCID: PMC8461677
PMID: 33814465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
report.


3. Med Hypotheses. 2001 Apr;56(4):413-5. doi: 10.1054/mehy.2000.1147.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder: a neuronal membrane phospholipid hypothesis and 
concomitant therapeutic strategy.

Oken RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)robertoken@nac.net

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is briefly characterized and several of the 
hypothesized neuroanatomical and neurochemical substrates of this etiologically 
heterogeneous syndrome are indicated as well as similarities among OCD, 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. A neuronal membrane phospholipid hypothesis 
is proposed for OCD analogous to those developed for schizophrenia by Horrobin 
et al. and for bipolar disorder by Stoll et al. Essential fatty acid (EFA) 
dietary supplementation has shown some efficacy in treating schizophrenia and 
bipolar disorder patients and should also be considered for OCD. Supporting 
this, a case report is presented of a subject with OCD who developed comorbid 
paresthesia, for whose latter condition a regimen of ibuprofen was instituted. 
Thirteen weeks thereafter subject's OCD symptomatology had declined by 40% (YBOC 
scale) from baseline. Inasmuch as ibuprofen and numerous other non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) block brain neuronal prostaglandin synthase 
(several also inhibiting phospholipases A(2)and C), thereby reducing catabolism 
of neuronal membrane arachidonic acid, the ibuprofen apparently increased the 
integrity of subject's neuronal membranes, as would likely also be the case with 
EFA dietary supplementation. This OCD NSAID-EFA therapy concept should be 
further tested by seeking other OCD subjects, especially from arthritis and 
rheumatism practices (where NSAIDS are routinely employed) and medical record 
data banks, as OCD has an estimated worldwide population lifetime prevalence of 
1% to 3% and at least a subset of OCD patients might possibly benefit.

Copyright 2001 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1054/mehy.2000.1147
PMID: 11339839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Clin Psychiatry. 1980 Nov;41(11):397-8.

Interaction of indomethacin and ibuprofen with lithium in manic patients under a 
steady-state lithium level.

Ragheb M, Ban TA, Buchanan D, Frolich JC.

The clinical effects of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors were studied in 
lithium treated manic patients. While indomethacin increased plasma lithium 
concentration, the effect of ibuprofen was inconsistent. Adverse reactions 
included tremors unrelated to changes in plasma lithium levels; nausea and 
drowsiness in 1 ibuprofen treated patient possibly related to the slight 
increase in plasma lithium, and a syndrome consisting of running nose, malaise 
and generalized body aches in 1 indomethacin treated patient. Our findings are 
in support of an important interaction between prostaglandin synthesis 
inhibitors and especially indomethacin and lithium, which may result in an 
increase in adverse reactions.

PMID: 7440513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]